.TH man 7 "30 Mar 2023" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin avro_kafka_store man page"

.ad l
.nh

.SH "NAME "
.PP
.PP
avro_kafka_store - LDMSD avro_kafka_store plugin
.PP
.SH "SYNOPSIS "
.SY config
.BR name=avro_kafka_store
.BI producer=PRODUCER
.BI instance=INSTANCE
.OP \fBtopic=\fITOPIC_FMT
.OP \fBencoding=\fIJSON
.OP \fBencoding=\fIAVRO
.OP \fBkafka_conf=\fIPATH
.OP \fBserdes_conf=\fIPATH
.YS
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION "
.PP
\f[CB]avro_kafka_store\fR implements a decomposition capable LDMS metric data
store. The \f[CB]avro_kafka_store\fR plugin does not implement the
\f[CB]store\fR function and must only be used with decomposition.
.PP
The plugin operates in one of two modes: \fIJSON\fR, and \fIAVRO\fR (the default).
In \fIJSON\fR mode, each row is encoded as a JSON formatted text string.
In \fIAVRO\fR mode, each row is associated with an AVRO schema and serialized using
an AVRO Serdes.
.PP
When in \fIAVRO\fR mode, the plugin manages schema in cooperation with an
Avro Schema Registry. The location of this registry is specified in a configuration
file or optionally on the \f[CB]config\fR command line.
.PP
.SH "CONFIG OPTIONS "
.PP
.PP
.IP "\fBmode \fR" 1c
A string indicating the encoding mode: "JSON" will encode messages in JSON format, "AVRO" will
encode messages using a schema and Avro Serdes. The default is "AVRO". The mode values are
not case sensitive.
.IP "\fBname \fR" 1c
Must be avro_kafka_store.
.IP "\fBkafka_conf \fR" 1c
A path to a configuration file in Java property format. This configuration file is
parsed and used to configure the Kafka kafka_conf_t configuration object. The format
of this file and the supported attributes are available
here: https://github.com/edenhill/librdkafka/blob/master/CONFIGURATION.md.
.IP "\fBserdes_conf \fR" 1c
A path to a configuration file in Java property format. This configuration file is parsed
and used to configure the Avro Serdes serdes_conf_t configuration object. The only supported
option for this file is serdes.schema.url.

.SH "TOPIC NAMES"
.PP
The topic name to which messages are published is defined by the \f[BR]topic\fR configuration parameter.
The parameter specifies a string that is a \fIformat specifier\fR similar to a printf() format
string. If the \f[BR]topic\fR is not specified, it defaults to "%S" which is the format specifier
for the set schema name.
.PP
The '%' character introduces a \fIformat specifier\fR that will be substituted in the topic format
string to create the topic name. The format specifiers are as follows:
.IP "\fB%F \fR" 1c
The format in which the message is serialized: "json" or "avro".
.IP "\fB%S \fR" 1c
The set parameter's \fIschema\fR name.
.IP "\fB%I \fR" 1c
The instance name of the set, e.g. "orion-01/meminfo".
.IP "\fB%P \fR" 1c
The set parameter's \fIproducer\fR name.
.IP "\fB%u \fR" 1c
The user-name string for the owner of the set.
If the user-name is not known on the system, the user-id is used.
.IP "\fB%U \fR" 1c
The user-id (uid_t) for the owner of the set.
.IP "\fB%g \fR" 1c
The group-name string for the group of the set.
If the group-name is not known on the system, the group-id is used.
.IP "\fB%G \fR" 1c
The group-id (gid_t) for the group of the set.
.IP "\fB%a \fR" 1c
The access/permission bits for the set formatted as a string, e.g. "-rw-rw----".
.IP "\fB%A \fR" 1c
The access/permission bits for the set formatted as an octal number, e.g. 0440.
.PP
Note that a topic name must only consist of a combination of the characters [a-zA-Z0-9\\._\\-].
In order to ensure that the format specifier above will not produce invalid topic names, any
character that results from a format specifier substitution that is not in the valid list will
be substituted with a '.'.
.PP
.SH "STRGP"
.PP
The avro_kafka_store is used with a storage policy that specifies avro_kafka_store as the
plugin parameter.
.PP
The \fIschema\fR, \fIinstance\fR, \fIproducer\fR and \fIflush\fR strgp_new parameters
have no affect on how data is stored. If the \fIcontainer\fR parameter is set to any
value other than an empty string, it will override the bootstrap.servers Kafka configuration
parameter in the kafka_conf file if present.
.PP
.SH "BUGS "
.PP
.PP
No known bugs\&.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES "
.PP
.PP
.SS "kafka_conf Example File "
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
# Lines beginning with '#' are considered comments.
# Comments and blank lines are ignored.

# Specify the location of the Kafka broker
bootstrap.server=localhost:9092
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "serdes_conf Example File "
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
# Specify the location of the Avro Schema registry. This can be overridden
# on the strgp_add line with the "container" strgp_add option if it is
# set to anything other than an empty string
serdes.schema.url=https://localhost:9092
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Example strg_add command "
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
strgp_add name=aks plugin=avro_kafka_store container=kafka-broker.int:9092 decomposition=aks-decomp.conf
strgp_start name=aks
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Example plugin configuration"
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
config name=avro_kafka_store encoding=avro kafka_conf=/etc/kakfa.conf serdes_conf=/etc/serdes.conf topic=ldms.%S
strgp_start name=aks
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH NOTES
.PP
This man page is a work in progress.
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldmsd_decomposition (7),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7)
