.\" Manpage for slurm_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin slurm_sampler man page"


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH NAME
Plugin_slurm_sampler - man page for the LDMSD slurm_sampler plugin


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH SYNOPSIS

Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.SY config
.BR name=slurm_sampler
.BI producer= PRODUCER
.BI instance= INSTANCE
.OP \fBcomponent_id=\fICOMP_ID
.OP \fBstream=\fISTREAM
.OP \fBjob_count=\fIMAX_JOBS
.OP \fBtask_count=\fIMAX_TASKS
.YS


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBslurm_sampler\fR is a sampler plugin that collects the information of the
Slurm jobs running on the node. It subscribes to the specified \fBstream\fR to
which the \fBslurm_notifier\fR SPANK plugin (see \fBPlugin_slurm_notifier\fR(7))
publish Slurm job events (default stream: \fIslurm\fR). The sampler supports
multi-tenant jobs.

The \fBjob_count\fR option is the number of slots in the LDMS
set allocated for concurrent jobs. If the number of concurrent jobs on the node
is greater than \fBjob_count\fR, the new job will occupy the slot of the oldest
job. If \fBjob_count\fR is not specified, the default value is \fI8\fR.

The \fBtask_count\fR is the maximum number of tasks per job on the node. If not
specified, it is \fICPU_COUNT\fR. In the event of the sampler failed to obtain
\fICPU_COUNT\fR, the default value is \fI64\fR.


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH CONFIG OPTIONS

.TP
.BR name=slurm_sampler
This MUST be slurm_sampler (the name of the plugin).
.TP
.BI producer= PRODUCER
The name of the data producer (e.g. hostname).
.TP
.BI instance= INSTANCE
The name of the set produced by this plugin. This option is required.
.TP
.BI component_id= COMPONENT_ID
An integer identifying the component (default: \fI0\fR).
.TP
.BI stream= STREAM
The name of the LDMSD stream to get the job event data.
.TP
.BI job_count= MAX_JOBS
The number of slots to hold job information. If all slots are occupied at the
time the new job arrived, the oldest slot is reused. The default value is
\fI8\fR.
.TP
.BI task_count= MAX_TASKS
The number of slots for tasks information per job. If not specified, the sampler
will try to obtain system CPU_COUNT and use it as task_count. If it failed, the
default value is \fI64\fR.


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH BUGS

No known bugs.


\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/
.SH EXAMPLES

Plugin configuration example:

.RS
.EX
load name=slurm_sampler
config name=slurm_sampler producer=${HOSTNAME} instance=${HOSTNAME}/slurm \\
       component_id=2 stream=slurm job_count=8 task_count=8
start name=slurm_sampler interval=1000000 offset=0
.EE
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_sampler_base (7).
