.\" Manpage for Plugin_hello_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "21 Aug 2021" "v4" "LDMS Plugin hello_sampler man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_hello_sampler - man page for the LDMS hello_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=hello_sampler [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The hello_sampler plugin does not actually sample, but rather subscribes to an ldmsd_stream and writes the stream data to the ldmsd logfile.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The hello_sampler plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> stream=<stream>
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be hello_sampler.
.TP
stream=<stream>
.br
Name of the stream to which to subscribe.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=hello_sampler
config name=hello_sampler producer=host1 instance=host1/hello_sampler stream=foo component_id=1
start name=hello_sampler interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.PP
.nf
> ./hello_publisher -x sock -h localhost -p 16000 -a munge -s foo -m "foo" -t str
The data was successfully published.
The server responded with 0

> ./hello_publisher -x sock -h localhost -p 16000 -a munge -s foo -m "bar" -t str
The data was successfully published.
The server responded with 0
.ni

.PP
In the log file of the ldmsd:
.nf
> cat log.txt
Mon May 04 19:44:05 2020: CRITICAL  : stream_type: STRING, msg: "foo", msg_len: 4, entity: (nil)
Mon May 04 19:44:24 2020: CRITICAL  : stream_type: STRING, msg: "bar", msg_len: 4, entity: (nil)
.ni

Note that the hello_streams sampler does not do a sample, instead it subscribes to the stream with a callback a\
nd prints out what it got off the stream.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), ldmsd_stream_publish(7), Plugin_stream_csv_store(7)
