.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_flatfile
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "24 Oct 2019" "v4.3.3" "LDMS Plugin store_flatfile man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_flatfile - man page for the LDMS store_flatfile plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script or a configuration file:
.br
load name=store_flatfile
.br
config name=store_flatfile path=datadir 
.br
strgp_add plugin=store_flatfile [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
The flatfile store generates one file per metric with time, producer, component id, and value columns separated by spaces. The file name is $datadir/$container/$schema/$metric_name. 

.PP

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_flatfile name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_flatfile.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above). They also are used to match any action=custom configuration.node/meminfo.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and schema determines where the output files will be written (see path above).
.RE


.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
As of LDMS Version 4.3.3 there is a change in behavior.
Previously there was a choice that an associated value with a metric was its udata, rather than the component_id.
In the code the variable name used was 'comp_id', even though it wasn't necessarily input as such in the sampler.
his code now explictly gets the component_id by name.

.IP \[bu]
We expect to develop additional options controlling output files and
output file format.
.IP \[bu]
There is no option to quote string values, handle rollover, or handle buffering.
.IP \[bu]
There is a maximum of 20 concurrent flatfile stores.
.PP

.SH BUGS
.PP
.IP \[bu]
Numeric array metrics are not presently supported.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.nf
load name=store_flatfile
config name=store_flatfile path=/XXX/datadir

# log only Active from the meminfo sampler
strgp_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo plugin=store_flatfile schema=meminfo container=flat
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo regex=localhost1
strgp_metric_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo metric=Active
strgp_start name=store_flatfile_meminfo regex=localhost1

# log all from vmstat
strgp_add name=store_flatfile_vmstat plugin=store_flatfile schema=vmstat container=flat
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_flatfile_vmstat regex=localhost1
strgp_start name=store_flatfile_vmstat regex=localhost1

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
