.\" Manpage for Plugin_hweventpapi
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin hweventpapi man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_hweventpapi - man page for the LDMS hweventpapi plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=hweventpapi [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The hweventpapi plugin provides energy sampling using RAPL via the PAPI interface for sandybridge.

WARNING: This sampler is unsupported.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The hweventpapi plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.


.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be hweventpapi.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `hweventpapi`.
.TP
metafile=<PATH>
.br
The metafile defines what to collect with undocumented "attribute=value" syntax.
The metafile is watched for changes and automatically reloaded.
.RE

.SH BUGS
This man page is incomplete.

.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
This sampler is unsupported.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=jobinfo
config name=jobinfo producer=${HOSTNAME} instance=${HOSTNAME}/jobinfo component_id=${COMPONENT_ID} uid=0 gid=0 perm=0700
load name=hweventpapi
config name=hweventpapi producer=${HOSTNAME} instance=${HOSTNAME}/hweventpapi job_set=${HOSTNAME}/jobinfo component_id=${COMPONENT_ID} metafile=/tmp/papi.conf uid=0 gid=0 perm=0700
start name=hweventpapi interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.PP
Within the metafile configuration:
.nf
this needs to be filled in.
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
