.\" Manpage for Plugin_ipmireader
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "21 Mar 2019" "v4" "LDMS Plugin ipmisensors man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_ipmisensors - man page for the LDMS ipmisensors plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=ipmisensors [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The ipmisensors plugin provides data from the result of the ipmi-sensors command. Specific parameters for the command described below.
All data is reported out as floats.

.B This sampler is currently in pre-release development in V4.2.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The ipmisensors plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>] [ <attr>=<value> ... ]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be ipmisensors.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `ipmisensors`.
.TP
address=<address>
.br
address of the host to contact. h flag in the ipmi-sensors command.
.TP
username=<username>
.br
username for the query. u flag in the ipmi-sensors command. Defaults to 'admin'.
.TP
password=<password>
.br
password for the query. p flag in the ipmi-sensors command. Defaults to 'password'.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.


.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
This sampler is currently in pre-release development in V4.2.
.IP \[bu]
The ipmi-sensors call appears to have more overhead than the ipmitool commandfor single node queries, and so the impireader sampler is preferred.
.IP \[bu]
Specific args to the command are:
--comma-separated-output --no-header-output --session-timeout=500 --retransmission-timeout=250 --quiet-cache --no-sensor-type.
Of note are the timeouts. These will limit how long the call will wait (and thus the duration of the sample) if a host is not responding.
.IP \[bu]
The ipmi-sensors call can be called with a fan out. This would cause significant parsing in the return, so it is not used here. Also the return of the fan out call will wait on the return of all the individual calls. Thus a non-responsive node can cause a long delay, affecting all values, without a timeout.
.IP \[bu]
Currently all the data is reported as type float.
.IP \[bu]
In case of signficant error or cannot open the file, all metrics are set to the FAIL value,
which currently is -8888. In case of a metric error, like a missing fan and hence the reported value is not numeric,
the metric is set to the ERR value, which currently is -9999.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=ipmisensors
config name=ipmisensors producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/ipmisensors address=cn1-ipmi
start name=ipmisensors interval=1000000
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), Plugin_ipmireader(7)
