.\" Manpage for Plugin_ipmireader
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2019" "v4" "LDMS Plugin ipmireader man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_ipmireader - man page for the LDMS ipmireader plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=ipmireader [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The ipmireader plugin provides data from the result of the ipmitool sdr command.
All data is reported out as floats.

.B This sampler is currently in pre-release development in V4.2.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The ipmireader plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>] [ <attr>=<value> ... ]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be ipmireader.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `ipmireader`.
.TP
address=<address>
.br
address of the host to contact. H flag in the ipmitool command.
.TP
username=<username>
.br
username for the query. U flag in the ipmitool command. Defaults to 'admin'.
.TP
password=<password>
.br
password for the query. P flag in the ipmitool command. Defaults to 'password'.
.TP
sdrcache=<sdrcache>
.br
output for the sdr cache file, to improve performance. Optional.
.TP
retry=<sec>
.br
interval to retry creating set if initially fails (host down). Default 600 sec.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.


.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
This sampler is currently in pre-release development in V4.2.
.IP \[bu]
Parameters in the ipmitool call are: -N1 (timeout for LAN interface) -R1 (number of retries for LAN interface). These are in order to reduce the time waiting for a non responsive node.
.IP \[bu]
The ipmitool command appears to have less overhead than ipmi-sensors and so is preferred over the
ipmisensors sampler for single node calls.
.IP \[bu]
If the dump cache command fails, this is not reported. If the file does not exist after a short sleep, there is a log message. Without the sdr file, the sampler will continue. On one system, using the cached sdr information reduces the call response time by about 0.5 seconds. This manifests itself in the timestamp of the call.
.IP \[bu]
There is a one time occurrence of a sleep of 2 seconds (empirically chosen) after the dump cache command, to enable the file to be written by the time of the next data call. If it takes longer, but is in place for later sample calls, it will be used then.
.IP \[bu]
There is currently no call to redump the file.
.IP \[bu]
There is no way to check that a dumped file is still accurate for your system.
.IP \[bu]
Currently all the data is reported as type float.
.IP \[bu]
In case of signficant error or cannot open the file, all metrics are set to the FAIL value,
which currently is -8888. In case of a metric error, like a missing fan and hence the reported value is not numeric,
the metric is set to the ERR value, which currently is -9999.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=ipmireader
config name=ipmireader producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/ipmireader address=cn1-ipmi
start name=ipmireader interval=1000000
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), Plugin_ipmisensors(7)
