.\" Manpage for ldmsd ldms-aggd
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2018" "v4" "ldmsd man page"

.SH NAME
ldmsd \- Start an ldms daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldmsd [OPTION...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \c ldmsd command is used to start an instance of an ldmsd server.
Configuration of the ldmsd is accomplished statically with a configuration
file provided on the command line, or dynamically with the ldmsd_controller
or distributed configuration management server Maestro.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SS The following environment variables may be set to override compiled-in defaults:
.TP
ZAP_LIBPATH
Path to the location of the LDMS transport libraries.
.TP
LDMSD_PLUGIN_LIBPATH
Path to the location of the LDMS plugin libraries.
.TP
LDMSD_PIDFILE
Full path name of a file overriding the default of /var/run/ldmsd.pid. The command line
argument "-r pid-file-path" takes precedence over this value.
.TP
LDMSD_LOG_TIME_SEC
If present, log messages are stamped with the epoch time rather than the date string. This is useful when sub-second information is desired or correlating log messages with other epoch-stamped data.
.TP
LDMSD_MEM_SZ
The size of memory reserved for metric sets. Set this variable or specify "-m"
to ldmsd. See the -m option for further details. If both are specified, the -m
option takes precedence over this environment variable.
.TP
LDMSD_UPDTR_OFFSET_INCR
The increment to the offset hint in microseconds for updaters that
determine the update interval and offset automatically. For example, if the offset
hint is 100000, the updater offset will be 100000 + LDMSD_UPDTR_OFFSET_INCR.
The default is 100000 (100 milliseconds).

.SS CRAY Specific Environment variables for ugni transport
.TP
ZAP_UGNI_PTAG
For XE/XK, the PTag value as given by apstat -P.
For XC, The value does not matter but the environment variable must be set.
.TP
ZAP_UGNI_COOKIE
For XE/XK, the Cookie value corresponding to the PTag value as given by apstat -P
For XC, the Cookie value (not Cookie2) as given by apstat -P
.TP
ZAP_UGNI_CQ_DEPTH
Optional value for the CQ depth. The default is 2048.
.TP
ZAP_UGNI_STATE_INTERVAL
Optional. If set, then ldmsd will check all nodes' states via rca interface.
States for all nodes are checked and stored at intervals determined by this environment variable. The stored
values are checked against before contacting a node. If you choose to use this option, then the rule of
thumb is to set ZAP_UGNI_STATE_INTERVAL and ZAP_UGNI_STATE_OFFSET such that the node states are checked
before the metric set update occurs (see interval and offset in ldmsd_controller)
.TP
ZAP_UGNI_STATE_OFFSET
Optional. Only relevant if ZAP_UGNI_STATE_INTERVAL is set. Defaults to zero. Offset from zero for
checking the nodes state (see ZAP_UGNI_STATE_INTERVAL, above).


.SH OPTIONS
.SS
General/Configuration Options:
.TP
.BI "-c " CONFIG_PATH
The path to configuration file (optional, default: <none>). The configuration
file contains a batch of ldmsd controlling commands, such as `load` for loading
a plugin, and `prdcr_add` for defining a ldmsd producer to aggregate from (see
\fBldmsd_controller\fR(8) for a complete list of commands, or simply run
\fBldmsd_controller\fR then \fBhelp\fR). The commands in the configuration file
are executed sequentially, except for \fBprdcr_start\fR, \fBupdtr_start\fR,
\fBstrgp_start\fR, and \fBfailover_start\fR that will be deferred. If
\fBfailover_start\fR is present, the failover service will start first (among
the deferred). Then, upon failover pairing success or failure, the other
deferred configuration objects will be started. Please also note that while
failover service is in use, prdcr, updtr, and strgp cannot be altered (start,
stop, or reconfigure) over in-band configuration. See also REORDERED COMMANDS below.
.TP
.BI "-m, --set_memory" " MEMORY_SIZE"
.br
MEMORY_SIZE is the maximum size of pre-allocated memory for metric sets.
The given size must be less than 1 petabytes.
For example, 20M or 20mb are 20 megabytes. The default is adequate for most ldmsd acting in the collector role.
For aggregating ldmsd, a rough estimate of preallocated memory needed is (Number of nodes aggregated) x (Number of metric sets per node) x 4k.
Data sets containing arrays may require more. The estimate can be checked by enabling DEBUG logging and examining the mm_stat bytes_used+holes value at ldmsd exit.
.TP
.BI "-r, --pid_file" " pid_file"
The path to the pid file and prefix of the .version banner file
.TP
.BR -V
Display LDMS version information and then exit.
.TP
.BR -u " plugin_name"
Display the usage for named plugin. Special names all, sampler, and store match all, sampler type, and store type plugins, respectively.


.SS
Communication Options:
.TP
.BI -x " XPRT:PORT:HOST"
.br
Specifies the transport type to listen on. May be specified more than once for
multiple transports. The XPRT string is one of 'rdma', 'sock', or 'ugni' (CRAY
XE/XK/XC). A transport specific port number must be specified following a \':',
e.g. rdma:10000. An optional host or address may be specified after the port,
e.g. rdma:10000:node1-ib, to listen to a specific address.

The listening transports can also be specified in the configuration file using
\fBlisten\fR command, e.g. `listen xprt=sock port=1234 host=node1-ib`. Please see
\fBldmsd_controller\fR(8) section \fBLISTEN COMMAND SYNTAX\fR for more details.
.TP
.BI "-a, --default_auth" " AUTH"
Specify the default LDMS Authentication method for the LDMS connections in this
process (when the connections do not specify authentication method/domain).
Please see \fBldms_authentication\fR(7) for more information. If this option is
not given, the default is "none" (no authentication). Also see
\fBldmsd_controller\fR(8) section \fBAUTHENTICATION COMMAND SYNTAX\fR for how to
define an authentication domain.
.TP
.BI "-A, --default_auth_args" " NAME" = VALUE
Passing the \fINAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR option to the LDMS Authentication plugin.
This command line option can be given multiple times. Please see
\fBldms_authentication\fR(7) for more information, and consult the plugin manual
page for plugin-specific options.

.SS
Log Verbosity Options:
.TP
.BI "-l, --log_file" " LOGFILE"
.br
LOGFILE is the path to the log file for status messages. Default is stdout unless given.
The syslog facility is used if LOGFILE is exactly "syslog".
Silence can be obtained by specifying /dev/null for the log file or using command line redirection as illustrated below.
.TP
.BI "-v, --log_level" " LOG_LEVEL"
.br
LOG_LEVEL can be one of DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, CRITICAL or QUIET.
The default level is ERROR. QUIET produces only user-requested output.
.TP
.BI -L, --log_config " <CINT:PATH> | <CINT> | <PATH>"
.br
Append configuration replay messages or configuration debugging messages to the log indicated by -l (when PATH is omitted) or to the file named PATH. Bit values of CINT correspond to:
.nf
      0: no messages
      1: debug messages from the generic 'request' handler
      2: config history messages in replayable format
      4: query history messages in replayable format
      8: failover debugging messages
     16: include delta time prefix when using PATH
     32: include epoch timestamp prefix when using PATH
.fi
These values may be added together to enable multiple outputs. All messages are logged at the user-requested level, LDMSD_LALL. CINT values 2, 26 and 27 are often interesting. When CINT is omitted, 1 is the default. When PATH is used, the log messages are flushed to as they are generated.

.SH SPECIFYING COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS IN CONFIGURATION FILES
.PP
While command-line options are useful for quick configuration, complex setups or
repeated deployments benefit from configuration files. These files provide a
centralized location to define all initial settings for LDMSD, promoting
readability, maintainability, and easy sharing across deployments. This section
serves as a reference for configuration commands used in these files. These
commands offer an alternative approach to specifying the initial state of LDMSD
compared to using command-line options

.SS Configuration commands to initialize LDMSD

\fBlog_file\fR sets the log file path.
.RS
.IP \fBpath\fR=\fIPATH
The log file path
.RE

\fBlog_level\fR sets the log verbosify. The default is ERROR.
.RS
.IP \fBlevel\fR=\fILEVEL
The log level ordered from the most to the least severity: CRITICAL, ERROR,
WARNING, INFO, and DEBUG.
.RE

\fBset_memory\fR sets the total set memory. The default is 512 MB.
.RS
.IP \fBsize\fR=\fISIZE
The total set memory size.
.RE

\fBpid_file\fR sets the path to the PID file.
.RS
.IP \fBpath\fR=\fIPATH
The PID file path
.RE

\fBbanner\fR specifies the banner mode.
.RS
.IP \fBmode=\fI0|1|2
0 means no banner; 1 means auto-deleting the banner file at exit; and 2 means
leaving the banner file.
.RE

\fBworker_threads\fR sets the number of threads scheduling sample and update
events.
.RS
.IP \fBnum\fR=\fINUM
Number of threads that are responsible for scheduling sample, dir, lookup, and
update events.
.RE

\fBdefault_auth\fR defines the default authentication domain. The default is no
authentication.
.RS
.IP \fBplugin\fR=\fINAME
The authentication plugin name
.IP \fB[auth_attr\fR=\fattr_value\fB]
The attribute-value pairs of the authentication plugin
.RE

\fBauth_add\fR defines an additional authentication domain.
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
The authentication domain name
.IP \fBplugin\fR=\fIPI_NAME
The autnentication plugin name
.IP \fB[auth_attr\fR=\fattr_value\fB]
The attribute-value pairs of the authentication plugin
.RE

\fBlisten\fR defines a listen endpoint.
.RS
.IP \fBxprt\fR=\fIXPRT
Endpoint transport: sock, rdma, ugni
.IP \fBport\fR=\fIPORT
Listening port
.IP \fB[host\fR=\fIHOST\fB]
Listening host
.IP \fB[auth\fR=\fIAUTH\fB]
Authentication domain. The default authentication domain is used if none is
specified.
.RE

\fBdefault_quota\fR sets the receiving quota in bytes
.RS
.IP \fBquota\fR=\fIBYTES
The quota limit in bytes
.RE

\fBpublish_kernel\fR enables LDMSD to publish kernel metrics and specifies the
kernel metric file.
.RS
.IP \fBpath\fR=\fIPATH
The path to the kernel metric file
.RE

\fBdaemon_name\fR sets the LDMS process name.
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
LDMS process name
.RE


.SS 'option' configuration command to set the command-line options
.PP
Apart from the configuration commands above, the configuration command 'option'
can be used to specify the command-line option.
.RS
option <COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS>

.TP
.BI -a, --default_auth
.TP
.BI -A, --default_auth_args
.TP
.BI -B, --banner
.TP
.BI -k, --publish_kernel
.TP
.BI -l, --log_file " PATH"
.TP
.BI -m, --set_memory
.TP
.BI -n, --daemon_name
.TP
.BI -P, --worker_threads
.TP
.BI -r, --pid_file
.TP
.BI -s, --kernel_set_path
.TP
.BI -v, --log_level
.TP
.BI -L, --log_config " <CINT[:PATH]>"
.RE

.SS Specifying the listen endpoints in configuraton files
.TP
Users can use the 'listen' command to define the listen endpoints. For example,
listen xprt=sock port=411

.SS Example
> cat ldmsd.conf
.nf
  # cmd-line options
  log_file path=/opt/ovis/var/ldmsd.log
  log_level level=ERROR
  set_memory size=2GB
  worker_threads num=16
  default_auth plugin=munge
  listen xprt=ugni port=411
  # meminfo
  load name=meminfo
  config name=meminfo producer=nid0001 instance=nid0001/meminfo
  start name=meminfo interval=1000000 offset=0

.SH RUNNING LDMSD ON CRAY XE/XK/XC SYSTEMS USING APRUN
.PP
ldsmd can be run as either a user or as root using the appropriate PTag and cookie.
.PP
Check (or set) the PTag and cookie.
.RS
Cray XE/XK Systems:
.nf
> apstat -P
PDomainID           Type    Uid   PTag     Cookie
LDMS              system      0     84 0xa9380000
foo               user    22398    243  0x2bb0000

Cray XC Systems:
> apstat -P
PDomainID   Type   Uid     Cookie    Cookie2
LDMS      system     0 0x86b80000          0
foo         user 20596 0x86bb0000 0x86bc0000
.RE
.fi
.PP
Set the environment variables ZAP_UGNI_PTAG and ZAP_UGNI_COOKIE with the appropriate ptag and cookie.
.PP
Run ldmsd directly or as part of a script launched from aprun. In either case, Use aprun with the correct -p <ptag> when running.

.SH REORDERED COMMANDS
Certain commands in are reordered when processing input scripts specified with -c. Items related to failover are handled as described in the '-c' section above. Other commands are promoted to run before any non-promoted commands from the loaded script. In particular, env, loglevel, listen, auth, and option are promoted.

.SH NOTES
OCM flags are unsupported at this time.

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsd -x sock:60000 -p unix:/var/run/ldmsd/metric_socket -l /tmp/opt/ovis/logs/1
.br
$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsd -x sock:60000 -p sock:61000 -p unix:/var/runldmsd/metric_socket
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldms_authentication(7), ldmsctl(8), ldms_ls(8), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_quickstart(7)
