.\" Manpage for ldms_auth_ovis
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "28 Feb 2018" "v4" "ldms_auth_ovis"


.SH NAME
ldms_auth_ovis \- LDMS authentication using ovis_auth library


.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.I ldms_app
.BI "-a ovis [-A conf=" PATH ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ldms_auth_ovis
uses shared secret to authenticate the connection. The secret is a text file
containing the line:
.PP
.RS
       secretword=X
.RE
.PP
where X is a string at least 8 characters long. Lines starting with # in the
file are ignored.

.PP
Four locations are checked in order for the secret:
.HP

1) the full file path given on the command line via "-A conf=authfile",

2) the full file path given in environment variable LDMS_AUTH_FILE,

3) $HOME/.ldmsauth.conf, and

4) $SYSCONFDIR/ldmsauth.conf (e.g. /etc/ldmsauth.conf).

.PP
where $HOME is taken from
.I /etc/password
and
$SYSCONFDIR is determined at ldms compile time. If one of these is not set, the
search continues with the next location. A failure in reading one, if the file
exists, ends the search and is a failure to authenticate.

The secret file permissions must be set to 600 or more restrictive.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
"LDMS_AUTH_FILE" is a full file path for a secretword file. It is not necessary,
if the file is in one of the other checked locations.

.SH NOTES
.PP
Authentication can be disabled at ldms build time by configuring your ldms build
with --disable-ovis_auth. Then no secretword file is required or checked.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Networked file system users should verify the privacy of their secret files, as
various access control list schemes might be more permissive than the standard
permissions bits.
