.\" Manpage for ldmsd_yaml_parser
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "20 Nov 2024" "ovis-4.4.5" "ldmsd_yaml_parser man page"
.TH YAML Configuration Quick Guide

.SH NAME
ldmsd_yaml_parser \- a python program to parse a YAML configuration file into a v4 LDMS configuration.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldmsd [OPTIONS]

.B ldmsd_yaml_parser
[OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
A single ldmsd can be configured using a YAML configuration file. This can be done by running ldmsd directly, or generating a configuration parser with the ldmsd_yaml_parser

.SH LDMSD YAML OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -y, " CONFIG_PATH"
The path to the YAML configuration file.
.TP
.BI -n, " NAME"
The name of the LDMS daemon.

.SH LDMSD_YAML_PARSER COMMAND SYNTAX
.TP
.BI --ldms_config, " CONFIG_PATH"
The path to the YAML configuration file.
.TP
.BI --daemon_name, " NAME"
The name of the LDMS daemon to configure.

.SH YAML CONFIGURATION SYNTAX

The LDMS YAML configuration syntax allows defining a single LMDSDs configuration up to an entire LDMS cluster configuration in a single file.
.br
LDMS YAML cluster configuration is organized into "groups" of dictionaries with relevant configurations for each group. The top level dictionaries are "daemons", "aggregators", "samplers", "plugins", and "stores".
.br
Time intervals are defined as a unit string, or an integer in microseconds.
.br
A unit string is one of the followings:
  us -- microseconds
  ms -- milliseconds
  s  -- seconds
  m  -- minutes
  h  -- hours
  d  -- days
.br
.PP
Permissions are defined in a unix-like permissions format, with a dash indicating a lack of permission. Executable permisson is not supported by "perm" and should always be "-". e.g. "rw-r-----"
.br
A string of an octal number is also accepted. e.g. "0640".
.br
"r" represents read permissions.
.br
"w" or "+" represent write permissions.
.br
.PP
Several of the keys in this configuration syntax utilize the hostlist format.
.br
Please see the hostlist documentation for more information regarding this here:
.br
https://readthedocs.org/projects/py-hostlist/downloads/pdf/latest/
.br
.PP
NOTE: When using a configuration string, rather than a dictionary, to configure a plugin, the string is not parsed by the YAML parser, and the exact string will be passed to the LDMSD as is. As such, the only accepted permission format when using a configuration string, rather than a dictionary, is an octal number, e.g. "0777". If an octal number is entered into the configuration as an integer, the parser will interpret the number incorrectly, and the permissions will not be set as expected.

.SH daemons
List of dictionaries describing LDMS daemons that are part of the cluster and their endpoints that share transport configurations. The primary keys are "names", "hosts", "endpoints", and "environment". Any keys provided that do not match this string values are assumed to be either CLI commands, or overarching default configuration commands for a daemon.

.SS names
Regex of a group of LDMS daemon attributes and endpoints that share transport configuration. These strings are referenced in the samplers and aggregators sections. Hostlist format.

.SS hosts
Hostnames on which the LDMS daemons will operate. Must be specified here. May be overridden by a "hosts" definition in the endpoints section. Hostlist format.

.SS endpoints
List of dictionaries of endpoint configurations for these daemons.
.RS
.TP
.BR names
.br
Unique names by which to identify the transport endpoints. Hostlist format. e.g. "sampler-[1-4]"
.TP
.BR [hosts]
.br
Hosts for an endpoint may be optionally specified if a certain interface is desired other than the stated hostname in the top level daemons section. Hostlist format. e.g. "node-[1-4]" for 4 LDMSDs
.TP
.BR [bind_all]
.br
The bind_all boolean may be specified to configure the LDMS daemon to listen on all available interfaces when using this endpoint. The prdcr_add command will use either the top level host definition, or, if defined, the host specified in the endpoints. bind_all accepts <True/False>
.TP
.BR ports
.br
Daemon endpoint ports on which to communicate. Hostlist or integer format. e.g. "[10001-10004]"
.br
If there are two endpoints, and two ports, one will be assigned to each endpoint.
.TP
.BR xprt
.br
The communication transport for the endpoint. <sock/rdma/ugni> are supported.
.TP
.BR auth
.br
Dictionary of a authentication domains plugin configuration.
.RS
.TP
.BR name
.br
Unique authentication domain name for this authentication configuration.
.TP
.BR plugin
.br
Name of the authentication domain plugin <ovis/munge>
.TP
.BR conf
.br
Dictionary of plugin specific configuration options for this authentication domain.

.SH aggregators
List of dictionaries defining aggregator configurations, their “peers” i.e. “producers”, that they will be aggregating data from, and the endpoints and daemons on which to communicate.
.br
The daemons reference daemon configuration definitions defined in the "daemons" dictionary.
.br
The stores reference storage policy names defined in the "stores" top level dictionary.
.br
The "plugins" key reference plugin instance names defined in the "plugins" top level dictionary.
.br
The primary keys are "names", "hosts", "endpoints", and "environment"
.br
Any keys provided that do not match one of these string values are assumed to be either CLI commands, or overarching default configuration commands for a daemon.

.SS names
String regex in hostlist format of a group of LDMS daemon attributes and endpoints that share transport configuration in hostlist format. These strings are referenced in the sampler and aggregator configurations.

.SS hosts
String regex in hostlist format of hostnames on which the LDMS daemon will operate. Must expand to an equal length as the daemon names, or be evenly divisble. e.g. 2 hostnames for 4 daemons.

.SS environment
A dictionary of environment variables for a LDMSD and their values. Keys are the environment variable name.

.SS [subscribe]
List of dictionaries of streams to subscribe producers to.
.TP
.BR stream
.br
The name of the stream.
.TP
.BR regex
.br
Regular expression matching producers to subscribe to the stream.

.SS peers
List of dictionaries containing producer configurations. This is an alternative method to configuring producers than using prdcr_listen. Producers defined in the "peers" section are as evenly distributed as possible amongst the "aggregators" defined in the parent directory. e.g. If there are 2 aggregators, and 4 producers, each aggregator will be assigned 2 producers in the configuration.
.TP
.BR daemons
.br
String of daemon names in hostlist format that references daemon names defined in the top level daemons section.
.TP
.BR endpoints
.br
String of endpoints in hostlist format that references endpoints defined in the top level daemons section.
.TP
.BR reconnect
.br
Interval by which the aggregator will attempt to reconnect to a disconnected producer. Unit string format.
.TP
.BR type
.br
Producer type. Either active or passive. passive is being deprecated.
.TP
.BR [perm]
.br
The permissions to modify the producer in the future. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [cache_ip]
.br
True/False boolean. True will cache the IP address after the first successful resolution (default). False will resolve the hostname at prdcr_add and at every connection attempt.
.TP
.BR updaters
.br
List of dictionaries of updater policy configurations.
.RS
.TP
.BR mode
.br
Updater mode. Accepted strings are <pull|push|onchange|auto>
"onchange" means the Updater will get an update whenever the set source ends
a transaction or pushes the update. "push" means the Updater will receive an
update only when the set source pushes the update.
'auto' means the updater will schedule set updates according to the update hint.
The sets with no hints will not be updated.
"pull" means the updater will schedule the set updates according to the given interval
.TP
.BR interval
.br
The update/collect interval at which to update the producer. Unit string format.
.TP
.BR [offset]
.br
Offset for synchronized aggregation. Optional. Unit string format.
.TP
.BR [perm]
.br
The permissions that allow modification of an updater in the future. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [producers]
.br
Optional regular expression matching zero or more producers to add to this updater. If omitted, all producers in the parent dictionary will be added to this updater.
.TP
.BR [sets]
.br
Optional list of dictionaries containing regular expressions that match either a schema instance name or a metric set instance name. If omitted, all sets belonging to producers added to this updater will be added to this updater.
.RS
.TP
.BR regex
.br
Regular expression to either match instance names or schemas to apply this updater policy too.
.TP
.BR field
.br
Field to use when matching the regular expression. <schema|inst>. schema matches a schema instance name, and inst matches a metric set instance name.

.SS prdcr_listen
An optional alternative configuration for how your aggregators will add producers that is used in conjunction with the top level samplers "advertise" key. When utilizing producer listen, the aggregator will listen until a connection is established by a sampler. When using this configuration, the aggregators configuration information is provided in the samplers section under the key "advertisers".
.RS
.TP
.BR name
.br
String name for the producer listener - does not need to be unique across aggregators.
.TP
.BR [regex]
.br
A regular expression matching hostnames in advertisements to add as a producer.
.TP
.BR [ip]
.br
An IP masks to filter advertisements using the source IP.
.TP
.BR [disable_start]
.br
Informs the ldmsd not to start producers.
.TP
.BR updaters
.br
List of dictionaries containing updater policies for the producers that ultimately connect to the producer listener.
.RS
.TP
.BR mode
.br
Updater mode. Accepted strings are <pull|push|onchange|auto>
"onchange" means the Updater will get an update whenever the set source ends
a transaction or pushes the update. "push" means the Updater will receive an
update only when the set source pushes the update.
'auto' means the updater will schedule set updates according to the update hint.
The sets with no hints will not be updated.
"pull" means the updater will schedule the set updates according to the given interval
and offset values.
.TP
.BR interval
.br
The update/collect interval at which to update the producer. Unit string format.
.TP
.BR [offset]
.br
Offset for synchronized aggregation. Optional. Unit string format.
.TP
.BR [perm]
.br
The permissions to modify the producer in the future. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [producers]
.br
Optional regular expression matching zero or more producers to add to this updater. If omitted, all producers in the parent dictionary will be added to this updater.
.TP
.BR [sets]
.br
Optional list of dictionaries containing regular expressions that match either a schema instance name or a metric set instance name. If omitted, all sets belonging to producers added to this updater will be added to this updater.
.RS
.TP
.BR regex
.br
Regular expression to either match instance names or schemas to apply this updater policy too.
.TP
.BR field
.br
Field to use when matching the regular expression. <schema|inst>. schema matches a schema instance name, and inst matches a metric set instance name.

.SH samplers
List of dictionaries defining sampler configurations and the LDMS daemons to apply them to. The daemons reference daemons defined in the top level "daemons" dictionary. Plugins reference instance names of plugins defined in the "plugins" top level dictionary.
.TP
.BR daemons
.br
String of daemon names in hostlist format that references daemon names defined in the top level daemons section.
.TP
.BR plugins
.br
List of strings of plugin instance names to load that reference plugin instance names defined in the top level plugins section. String format.
.TP
.BR [advertise]
.br
Alternative configuration to the aggregators "peers" where the sampler initiates a connection to the aggregator. The producer listener for an advertiser is defined in the top level aggregators section.
.RS
.TP
.BR names
.br
String of daemon names in hostlist format to advertise the samplers as.
.TP
.BR hosts
.br
String of daemon hosts in hostlist format, that references daemon names defined in the top level "daemons" section, for the samplers to advertise to.
.TP
.BR port
.br
String of port(s) in hostlist format of the aggregator daemons that the sampler daemons will attempt to connect to.
.TP
.BR reconnect
.br
The interval at which the sampler will attempt to reconnect to a disconnected advertiser. Float followed by a unit string.
.TP
.BR [perm]
The permissions in order to modify the advertiser in the future. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [auth]
.br
Dictionary of a authentication domains plugin configuration.
.RS
.TP
.BR name
.br
Unique authentication domain name for this authentication configuration.
.TP
.BR plugin
.br
Name of the authentication domain plugin <ovis/munge>
.TP
.BR [conf]
.br
Optional dictionary of plugin specific configuration options for this authentication domain.
.RS
.BR ["path" : "/opt/ovis/secret.conf"]

.SH stores
Dictionary of storage policies and their configuration information with each key being a storage policy name.
.TP
.BR container
.br
File path of the database container.
.TP
.BR [schema]
.br
Name of the metric set schema. This is a required argument unless decomposition is specified. May not be used in conjunction with "regex".
.TP
.BR plugin
.br
Name of a storage plugin that matches a key of a plugin defined in the top level plugins section.
.TP
.BR [perm]
.br
The permissions of who can modify the storage plugin in the future. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [decomposition]
.br
Path to a decomposition configuration file.
.TP
.BR [regex]
.br
A regular expression matching the schema set names to apply the decomposition file to. May not be used in conjunction with "schema".
.TP
.BR [flush]
.br
Optional interval of time that directs flushing of the store to the database.

.SH plugins
Dictionary of plugins and their configuration information with each key being a plugin instance name.
.RS
.TP
.BR name
.br
The name of a plugin to load. e.g. meminfo
.TP
.BR interval
.br
The interval at which to sample data.
.TP
.BR [offset]
.br
Offset (shift) from the sample mark in the same format as intervals.
Offset can be positive or negative with magnitude up to 1/2
the sample interval. The default offset is 0. Collection is always synchronous.
.TP
.BR config
.br
A list of dictionaries containing plugin configuration options. Each dictionary in the list is a "config" command call, and in this fashion, the YAML configuration mimics running multiple "config" statements in a conventional v4 configuration file. Strings may also be used in lieu of a dictionary, however configuration lines defined as strings will be passed as a LDMSD request as is, with no parsing done by the YAML parser.
.br
.RS
.PP
NOTE: When using a configuration string, rather than a dictionary, to configure a plugin, the string is not parsed by the YAML parser, and the exact string will be passed to the LDMSD as is. As such, the only accepted permission format when using a configuration string, rather than a dictionary, is an octal number, e.g. "0777". If an octal number is entered into the configuration as an integer, the parser will interpret the number incorrectly, and the permissions will not be set as expected.
.br
.PP
Any plugin-specific configuration options not listed below will be included in the configuration.
.RS
.TP
.BR schema
.br
Name of the metric set to use.
.TP
.BR [perm]
.br
Access permissions for the metric set within the container. String of octal number or unix-like permissions format. e.g. "rw-r--r--"
.TP
.BR [component_id]
.br
Unique ID of the component being monitored. If configuring an entire cluster, it's advised to set this to reference an environment variable on the system.
.TP
.BR [producer]
.br
Producer name must be unique in an aggregator. It is independent of any attributes specified for the metric sets or hosts. A producer name will be generated by the yaml using the hostname of the sampler and the plugin instance name if one is not specified. <hostname>/<plugin_name>
