.\" Manpage for ldms_authentication
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "28 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Authentication man page"

.SH NAME
ldms_authentication \- Authentication in LDMS transports

.SH DESCRIPTION
LDMS applications use authentication plugins in LDMS transports to
authenticate the peers. In other words, not only \fBldmsd\fR authenticates
the client connections, the clients
.RB ( ldms_ls ,
.BR ldmsctl ,
.BR ldmsd_controller ,
and other
.BR ldmsd )
authenticate the
.B ldmsd
too.

.BR ldmsd ,
.BR ldms_ls ,
.BR ldmsd_controller ", and"
.B ldmsctl
use the following options for authentication purpose:
.TP
.BI \-a " AUTH_PLUGIN"
Specifying the name of the authentication plugin. The default is "none" (no
authentication).
.TP
.BI \-A  " NAME" = "VALUE"
Specifying options to the authentication plugin. This option can be given
multiple times.

.PP
\fBauth\fR configuration object has been introduced in \fBldmsd\fR version
4.3.4. It describes an authentication domain in the configuration file with
\fBauth_add\fR command. \fBlisten\fR and \fBprdcr_add\fR config commands can
refer to \fBauth\fR object created by \fBauth_add\fR command to specify the
authentication domain a listening port or a producer connection belong to. If no
\fBauth\fR option is specified, \fBlisten\fR and \fBprdcr_add\fR commands fall
back to use the authentication method specified by \fB-a, -A\fR CLI options
(which is default to \fBnone\fR).

.PP
Please consult the manual of the plugin for more details.


.SH LIST OF LDMS_AUTH PLUGINS

.TP
.B none
Authentication will NOT be used (allow all connections)
.RB "(see " ldms_auth_none (7)).

.TP
.B ovis
The shared secret authentication using ovis_ldms
.RB "(see " ldms_auth_ovis (7)).

.TP
.B naive
The naive authentication for testing.
.RB "(see " ldms_auth_naive (7)).

.TP
.B munge
User credential authentication using Munge.
.RB "(see " ldms_auth_munge (7)).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldms_auth_none (7),
.BR ldms_auth_ovis (7),
.BR ldms_auth_naive (7),
.BR ldms_auth_munge (7),
.BR ldmsctl (8),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_ls (8),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldms_build_install (7)
