.\" Manpage for ldms_ls
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "28 Feb 2018" "v4" "ldms_ls man page"

.SH NAME
ldms_ls \- Query an ldmsd for metric set values

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms_ls [OPTION...] [NAME]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldms_ls command is used to query an ldmsd (ldms daemon) for metric set values.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.SS
The following environment variables must be set:
.TP
LD_LIBRARY_PATH
include the path to ovis/lib and libevent2. On some system, lib64 rather than lib is required.
.TP
PATH
include the path to ovis/sbin
.SS
The following environment variables may be set to override compiled defaults:
.TP
ZAP_LIBPATH
path to ovis/lib/ovis-ldms
.TP
LDMSD_PLUGIN_LIBPATH
path to ovis/lib/ovis-ldms

.SS
The following environment variables are optional:
.TP
LDMS_LS_MEM_SZ
The size of memory reserved for metric sets. See the -m option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
If the NAME is specified on the command line without -E/-S/-I, only information for that instance = NAME is displayed.
.TP
.BI -E " NAME"
.br
Indicates that the NAME is a regular expression.
.TP
.BI -S " NAME"
.br
Indicates that the NAME is a schema name.
.TP
.BI -I " NAME"
.br
Indicates that the NAME is an instance name. This is the default.
.TP
.BI -h " HOST"
.br
HOST to query. Default is localhost.
.TP
.BI -x " TRANSPORT"
TRANSPORT to use for the query. values are sock, rdma, or ugni (Cray XE/XK/XC). Default is sock.
.TP
.BI -p " PORT"
PORT of the HOST to use for the query. Default is LDMS_DEFAULT_PORT.
.TP
.BR -l
Display long listing. Outputs details of the metric set, including timestamp, metric names, metric types, and values.

.TP
.BI -a " AUTH"
The name of the LDMS Authentication plugin. Please see
.BR ldms_authentication (7)
for more details. (default: "none").
.TP
.BI "-A " NAME = VALUE
The name-value options for the LDMS Authentication plugin. This option can be
given multiple times. Please see
.BR ldms_authentication (7)
for more information and consult the plugin manual for the option details.

.TP
.BI -m  " MEMORY_SIZE"
.br
MEMORY_SIZE is the size of memory reserved for metric sets. This value has
precedence over the value of the LDMS_LS_MEM_SZ environment variable. The given
size must be less than 1 petabytes.  For example, 20M or 20mb are 20 megabytes.
Unless a specific set is being queried, this should usually match the size of
pre-allocated memory specified when starting the remote ldmsd being queried.

.TP
.BR -u
Display the user data for the metrics. (Usually compid)
.TP
.BR -v
Display metadata information. Specifying this option multiple times increases the verbosity.
.TP
.BR -V
Display LDMS version information and then exit.
.TP
.BI -w " WAIT_SEC"
WAIT_SEC is the time to wait before giving up on the server. Default is 10 sec.

.SH DEFAULTS
.BR ldms_ls
with no arguments defaults to
.BR "ldms_ls -p"
.I
XXX
.BR -h
.I
localhost
.BR -x
.I
sock
where XXX is the LDMS_DEFAULT_PORT.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
1) $ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000
vm1_1/meminfo
vm1_1/vmstat
.br
.PP
.nf
2) $ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -l
vm1_1/meminfo: consistent, last update: Thu Oct 29 08:04:44 2015 [202552us]
D u64        MemTotal                        132165188
D u64        MemFree                         129767048
D u64        Buffers                         0
D u64        Cached                          46780
D u64        SwapCached                      0
D u64        Active                          16116
D u64        Inactive                        8596
D u64        Active(anon)                    10440
D u64        Inactive(anon)                  220
D u64        Active(file)                    5676
D u64        Inactive(file)                  8376
D u64        Unevictable                     35400
D u64        Mlocked                         6032

...
.br
.PP
The output format of the data is as follows:
.TP
.BR M/D
indicates metadata vs data values
.TP
.BR Metrictype
in the example above, unsigned int 64.
.TP
.BR Value
Value of the metric
.PP
.nf
3) For a non-existent set:
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -l vm1_1/foo
ldms_ls: No such file or directory
ldms_ls: lookup failed for set 'vm1_1/foo'
.PP
4) Display metadata:
.nf
.RS
ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -v
vm1_1/meminfo: consistent, last update: Fri Dec 16 17:12:08 2016 [5091us]
  METADATA --------
    Producer Name : vm1_1
    Instance Name : vm1_1/meminfo
      Schema Name : meminfo
             Size : 1816
     Metric Count : 43
               GN : 2
  DATA ------------
        Timestamp : Fri Dec 16 17:12:08 2016 [5091us]
         Duration : [0.000072s]
       Consistent : TRUE
             Size : 384
               GN : 985
  -----------------
.RE
.PP
5) Regular Expression:
.nf
.RS
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -E vm1
vm1_1/meminfo
vm1_1/vmstat
.nf
.PP
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -E vms
vm1_1/vmstat
.nf
.PP
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -E -I memin
vm1_1/meminfo
.nf
.PP
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -E -S ^vmstat$
vm1_1/vmstat
.nf
.PP
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -E -S cpu
ldms_ls: No metric sets matched the given criteria
.fi
.PP
If the -E option is not given, the given string will be taken literally, i.e., it is equivalent to giving -E ^foo$.

The regular expression option can be used with the -v and -l options. In this case ldms_ls will display only the information of the metric sets that matched the given regular expression.
.PP



.SH SEE ALSO
ldms_authentication(7), ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7),
