\" Manpage for ldmsd_sampler_advertisement
.TH man 7 "27 March 2024" "v5" "LDMSD Sampler Advertisement man page"

.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/.
.SH NAME
ldmsd_sampler_advertisement - Manual for LDMSD Sampler Advertisement

.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""/.
.SH SYNOPSIS

**Sampler side Commands**

.IP \fBadvertiser_add
.RI "name=" NAME " xprt=" XPRT " host=" HOST " port=" PORT
.RI "[auth=" AUTH_DOMAIN "]"

.IP \fBadvertiser_start
.RI "name=" NAME
.RI "[xprt=" XPRT " host=" HOST " port=" PORT " auth=" AUTH_DOMAIN "]"

.IP \fBadvertiser_stop
.RI "name=" NAME

.IP \fBadvertiser_del
.RI "name=" NAME

.IP \fBadvertiser_status
.RI "[name=" NAME "]"

.PP
**Aggregator Side Commands**

.IP \fBprdcr_listen_add
.RI "name=" NAME "
.RI "[disable_start=" TURE|FALSE "] [regex=" REGEX "] [ip=" CIDR "]"

.IP \fBprdcr_listen_start
.RI "name=" NAME

.IP \fBprdcr_listen_stop
.RI "name=" NAME

.IP \fBprdcr_listen_del
.RI "name=" NAME

.IP \fBprdcr_listen_status

.SH DESCRIPTION

LDMSD Sampler Discovery is a capability that enables LDMSD to automatically add
producers whose hostnames match a given regular expression or whose IP
addresses fall in a given IP range. If neither regular expression nor an IP
range is given, LDMSD adds a producer whenever it receives an advertisement
message. The feature eliminates the need for manual configuration of sampler
hostnames in the aggregator configuration file.

Admins specify the aggregator hostname and the listening port in sampler
configuration via the \fBadvertiser_add\fR command and start the advertisement
with the \fBadvertiser_start\fR command. The sampler now advertises its
hostname to the aggregator. On the aggregator, admins may specify a regular
expression to be matched with the sampler hostname or an IP range via the
\fBprdcr_listen_add\fR command. The \fBprdcr_listen_start\fR command is used to
tell the aggregator to automatically add producers corresponding to a sampler
of which the hostname matches the regular expression or the IP address falls in
the given IP range.

The automatically added producers are of the 'advertised' type. The producer's
name is the same as the value of the ‘name’ attribute given at the
\fBadvertiser_add\fR line in the sampler configuration file. LDMSD
automatically starts the advertised producers. Admins could provide the
\fBdisable_start\fR attribute at the \fBprdcr_listen_add\fR with the ‘true’
value to let LDMSD not automatically start the advertised producers. Admins can
stop an advertised producer using the \fBprdcr_stop\fR or
\fBprdcr_stop_regex\fR commands. They can be restarted by using the
\fBprdcr_start\fR or \fBprdcr_start_regex\fR commands.

The description for each command and its parameters are as follows.

**Sampler Side Commands**

\fBadvertiser_add\fR adds a new advertisement. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
String of the advertisement name. The aggregator uses the string as the producer name as well.
.IP \fBhost\fR=\fIHOST
Aggregator hostname
.IP \fBxprt\fR=\fIXPRT
Transport to connect to the aggregator
.IP \fBport\fR=\fIPORT
Listen port of the aggregator
.IP \fBreconnect\fR=\fIINTERVAL
Reconnect interval
d
.IP \fB[auth\fR=\fIAUTH_DOMAIN\fB]
The authentication domain to be used to connect to the aggregator
.RE

\fBadvertiser_start\fR starts an advertisement. If the advertiser does not
exist, LDMSD will create the advertiser. In this case, the mandatory attributes
for \fBadvertiser_add\fB must be given. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
The advertisement name to be started
.IP \fB[host\fR=\fIHOST\fB]
Aggregator hostname
.IP \fB[xprt\fR=\fIXPRT\fB]
Transport to connect to the aggregator
.IP \fB[port\fR=\fIPORT\fB]
Listen port of the aggregator
.IP \fB[reconnect\fR=\fIINTERVAL\fB]
Reconnect interval
.IP \fB[auth\fR=\fIAUTH_DOMAIN\fB]
The authentication domain to be used to connect to the aggregator
.RE

\fBadvertiser_stop\fR stops an advertisement. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
The advertisement name to be stopped
.RE

\fBadvertiser_del\fR deletes an advertisement. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
The advertisement name to be deleted
.RE

\fBadvertiser_status reports the status of each advertisement. An optional parameter is:
.RS
.IP \fB[name\fR=\fINAME\fB]
Advertisement name
.RE

.PP
**Aggregator Side commands**

\fBprdcr_listen_add\fR adds a regular expression to match sampler advertisements. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
String of the prdcr_listen name.
.IP \fB[disable_start\fR=\fITRUE|FALSE\fB]
True to tell LDMSD not to start producers automatically
.IP \fB[regex\fR=\fIREGEX\fB]
Regular expression to match with hostnames in sampler advertisements
.IP \fBip\fR=\fICIDR\fB]
IP Range in the CIDR format either in IPV4 or IPV6
.RE

\fBprdcr_listen_start\fR starts accepting sampler advertisement with matches hostnames. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
Name of prdcr_listen to be started
.RE

\fBprdcr_listen_stop\fR stops accepting sampler advertisement with matches hostnames. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
Name of prdcr_listen to be stopped
.RE

\fBprdcr_listen_del\fR deletes a regular expression to match hostnames in sampler advertisements. The parameters are:
.RS
.IP \fBname\fR=\fINAME
Name of prdcr_listen to be deleted
.RE

\fBprdcr_listen_status\fR report the status of each prdcr_listen object. There is no parameter.

.SH Managing Receive Credits and Rate Limits for Auto-Added Producers

The receive credits and rate limit control machanisms govern the amount of data
a producer receives from the data source connected through ldms_xprt. This helps
prevent data bursts that could overwhelm the LDMS daemon host and network
resources. To configure receive credits and rate limits, users can create a
listening endpoint on the aggregator using the \fBlisten\fR command specifying
the desired values of the \fBcredits\fR and \fBrx_rate\fR attributes. Moreover,
users configure the sampler daemons to advertise to the listening endpoint
created on the aggregator, including the preferred creceive credits and rate
limit values.

.SH EXAMPLE

In this example, there are three LDMS daemons running on \fBnode-1\fR,
\fBnode-2\fR, and \fBnode03\fR. LDMSD running on \fBnode-1\fR and \fBnode-2\fR
are sampler daemons, namely \fBsamplerd-1\fR and \fBsamplerd-2\fR. The
aggregator (\fBagg\fR) runs on \fBnode-3\fR. All LDMSD listen on port 411.

The sampler daemons collect the \fBmeminfo\fR set, and they are configured to
advertise themselves and connect to the aggregator using sock on host
\fBnode-3\fR at port 411. They will try to reconnect to the aggregator every 10
seconds until the connection is established. The following are the configuration
files of the \fBsamplerd-1\fR and \fBsamplerd-2\fR.

.EX
.B
> cat samplerd-1.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Add and start an advertisement
advertiser_add name=samplerd-1 xprt=sock host=node-3 port=411 reconnect=10s
advertiser_start name=samplerd-1
# Load, configure, and start the meminfo plugin
load name=meminfo
config name=meminfo producer=samplerd-1 instance=samplerd-1/meminfo
start name=meminfo interval=1s
.RE

.B
> cat samplerd-2.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Add and start an advertisement using only the advertiser_start command
advertiser_start name=samplerd-2 host=node-3 port=411 reconnect=10s
# Load, configure, and start the meminfo plugin
load name=meminfo
config name=meminfo producer=samplerd-2 instance=samplerd-2/meminfo
start name=meminfo interval=1s
.RE
.EE

The aggregator is configured to accept advertisements from the sampler daemons
that the hostnames match the regular expressions \fBnode0[1-2]\fR. The name of
the auto-added producers is the name of the advertiser on the sampler daemons.

.EX
.B
> cat agg.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Accept advertisements sent from LDMSD running on hostnames matched node-[1-2]
prdcr_listen_add name=computes regex=node-[1-2]
prdcr_listen_start name=computes
# Add and start an updater
updtr_add name=all_sets interval=1s offset=100ms
updtr_prdcr_add name=all_sets regex=.*
updtr_start name=all
.RE
.EE

LDMSD provides the command \fBadvertiser_status\fR to report the status of
advertisement of a sampler daemon.

.EX
.B
> ldmsd_controller -x sock -p 10001 -h node-1
Welcome to the LDMSD control processor
sock:node-1:10001> advertiser_status
Name             Aggregator Host  Aggregator Port Transport    Reconnect (us)         State
---------------- ---------------- --------------- ------------ --------------- ------------
samplerd-1                 node-3             411         sock        10000000    CONNECTED
sock:node-1:10001>
.EE

Similarly, LDMSD provides the command \fBprdcr_listen_status\fR to report the
status of all prdcr_listen objects on an aggregator. The command also reports
the list of auto-added producers corresponding to each prdcr_listen object.

.EX
.B
> ldmsd_controller -x sock -p 10001 -h node-3
Welcome to the LDMSD control processor
sock:node-3:10001> prdcr_listen_status
Name                 State      Regex           IP Range
-------------------- ---------- --------------- ------------------------------
computes             running    node-[1-2]      -
Producers: samplerd-1, samplerd-2
sock:node-3:10001>
.EE

Next is an example that controls the receive credits and rate limits of the
auto-added producers on agg11. Similar to the first example, the aggregator,
agg11, listens on port 411 and waits for advertisements. Moreover, a listening
endpoint on port 412 is added with a receive credits value. The aggregator also
creates producers when an advertisement sent from the host its IP address
falling into the subnet 192.168.0.0:16.

.EX
.B
> cat agg11.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Create the listening endpoint for receiving advertisement
listen xprt=sock port=412 credit=4000
# Accept advertisements sent from LDMSD running on hostnames their IP address
# falling in the range 192.168.0.0:16.
prdcr_listen_add name=compute ip=192.168.0.0:16
prdcr_listen_start name=compute
# Add and start an updater
updtr_add name=all_sets interval=1s offset=100ms
updtr_prdcr_add name=all_sets regex=.*
updtr_start name=all
.RE
.EE

There are two sampler daemons, which are configured to advertise to port 412 so
that the auto-added producers adopt the receive credidts of the listening
endpoint on port 412.

.EX
.B
> cat samplerd-3.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Start an advertiser that sends the advertisement to port 412 on the aggregator
# host
advertiser_start name=samplerd-3 host=agg11 xprt=sock port=412 reconnect=10s
# Load, configure, and start the meminfo plugin
load name=meminfo
config name=meminfo producer=samplerd-3 instance=samplerd-3/meminfo
start name=meminfo interval=1s
.RE
.EE

.EX
.B
> cat samplerd-4.conf
.RS 4
# Create a listening endpoint
listen xprt=sock port=411
# Start an advertiser that sends the advertisement to port 412 on the aggregator
# host
advertiser_start name=samplerd-4 host=agg11 xprt=sock port=412 reconnect=10s
# Load, configure, and start the meminfo plugin
load name=meminfo
config name=meminfo producer=samplerd-4 instance=samplerd-4/meminfo
start name=meminfo interval=1s
.RE
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldmsd (8)
.BR ldmsd_controller (8)
