\" Manpage for ldmsd_store
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "28 Nov 2018" "v4" "ldmsd storage plugin user manual"

.SH NAME
ldmsd_store - ldmsd storage plugin user manual

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY load
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR plugin=\fIPLUGIN_NAME\fR
.SY config
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR [uid=\fIUID_INT\fR] [gid=\fIGID_INT\fR]
[perm=\fIPERM_INT\fR] [\fIPLUGIN_SPECIFIC_OPTIONS\fR]
.SY strgp_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR container=\fIINST_NAME\fR schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR
.SY strgp_prdcr_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR regex=\fIPRDCR_REGEX\fR
.SY strgp_metric_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR metric=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR
.SY strgp_start
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBldmsd\fR supports the storage of LDMS set data via storage policy
(\fBstrgp\fR) and storage plugin instances. \fBstrgp\fR is an entity in the
\fBldmsd\fR that associate LDMS sets from various producers to the target
storage plugin intance. The steps required to configure and start data storage
are as follows:

.IP
1. \fBLOADING PLUGIN INSTANCE\fR
.br
2. \fBPLUGIN INSTANCE CONFIGURATION\fR
.br
3. \fBCREATING STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)\fR
.br
4. \fBADD PRODUCER (PRDCR) TO STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)\fR
.br
5. \fBSPECIFY SUBSET OF METRICS TO STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)\fR
.br
6. \fBSTARTING STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)\fR

.PP
Please see the detail description of each corresponding step in the following
sections below.

.SH LOADING PLUGIN INSTANCE
A storage plugin instance is loaded with the command:
.SY load
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR plugin=\fIPLUGIN_NAME\fR
.YS

For example, "load name=mysos plugin=store_sos" loads a `store_sos` plugin
instance and assign "mysos" to its name. The name is used to refer to the plugin
instance. So, it has to be unique among all plugin instances (not just store
instances) in the \fBldmsd\fR.

.SH STORE PLUGIN INSTANCE CONFIGURATION
Before the storage plugin instance can be used by \fBstrgp\fR, it has to be
configured first. This manual describes only options common to all storage
plugins. However, please note that the common options can also be ignored by the
plugin implementation. The store plugin instance can be configured as follows:

.SY config
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR [uid=\fIUID_INT\fR] [gid=\fIGID_INT\fR]
[perm=\fIPERM_INT\fR] [\fIPLUGIN_SPECIFIC_OPTIONS\fR]
.YS

.SS Attribue Descriptions
.TP 4
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR
The name of the instance to configure.
.TP
[uid=\fIUID_INT\fR]
The optinal UID for store creation. If not specified, the default value is the
effective uid (\fBeuid\fR) of the running \fBldmsd\fR.
.TP
[gid=\fIGID_INT\fR]
The optinal GID for store creation. If not specified, the default value is the
effective gid (\fBegid\fR) of the running \fBldmsd\fR.
.TP
[perm=\fIPERM_INT\fR]
The optional permission for store creation. If not specified, the default value
is 0660.
.TP
[\fIPLUGIN_SPECIFIC_OPTIONS\fR]
Please see the specific plugin manual for its additional options.

.SH CREATING STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)
A storage policy (\fBstrgp\fR) is an entity in \fBldmsd\fR that holds
information regarding what schema/metrics to store, from which producer, and
into which storage. A storage policy associates to exactly one storage plugin
instance. A storage policy can be created as follows:
.SY strgp_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR container=\fIINST_NAME\fR schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR
.YS
.SS Attribute Descriptions
.TP 4
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR
The name of the storage policy. This needs to be unique among storage policies
in the \fBldmsd\fR.
.TP
container=\fIINST_NAME\fR
The name reference to the storage plugin instance.
.TP
schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR
The schema name of the LDMS sets to be stored.

.SH ADD PRODUCER (PRDCR) TO STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)
After \fBstrgp\fR has been created, the user must add producers (\fBprdcr\fR) to
the \fBstrgp\fR. Only the sets from the \fBprdcr\fR added to \fBstrgp\fR are
stored. The user can add producers to a storage policy as follows:
.SY strgp_prdcr_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR regex=\fIPRDCR_REGEX\fR
.YS
.PP
The \fBname\fR is the name reference to \fBstrgp\fR, and \fBregex\fR is
the regular expression matching the name of the producers to be added.

.SH SPECIFY SUBSET OF METRICS TO STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)
This is OPTIONAL. By default, the storage policy stores all LDMS metrics
available in the set. However, the user has an option to store only a subset of
metrics by calling the following command:
.SY strgp_metric_add
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR metric=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR
.YS
.PP
The \fBname\fR is the name referring to the \fBstrgp\fR, and the \fBmetric\fR is
the name of the metric to be included. The command receive only single metric
name. If multiple metrics are needed, the user has to iteratively call this
command for each metric.

.SH STARTING STORAGE POLICY (STRGP)
\fBldmsd\fR will store data according to a \fBstrgp\fR after it has been
successfully started. \fBstrgp\fR can be started by:
.SY strgp_start
name=\fISTRGP_NAME\fR
.YS
.PP
Where \fBname\fR is the name reference to the \fBstrgp\fR.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Example 1
The following configuration example stores all procnetdev metric data from all
producers into a store_sos.
.IP
.EX
load name=mysos plugin=store_sos
config name=mysos path=/sos
strgp_add name=sos_netdev container=mysos schema=procnetdev
strgp_prdcr_add name=sos_netdev regex=.*
strgp_start name=sos_netdev
.EE

.SS Example 2
The following configuration example stores only rx_bytes and tx_bytes metrics
from procnetdev from all producers into a store_sos.
.IP
.EX
load name=mysos plugin=store_sos
config name=mysos path=/sos
strgp_add name=sos_netdev container=mysos schema=procnetdev
strgp_prdcr_add name=sos_netdev regex=.*
strgp_metric_add name=sos_netdev metric=rx_bytes
strgp_metric_add name=sos_netdev metric=tx_bytes
strgp_start name=sos_netdev
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Plugin_store_sos (7),
.BR Plugin_store_csv (7)
