.\" Manpage for ldms_sampler_base
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "27 Nov 2018" "v4" "LDMS sampler_base  man page"

.SH NAME
sampler_base - man page for the LDMS sampler_base which is the base class for sampler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" adjusting left
.ad l
.\" no-hyphenation
.nh
.HP
load name=\fIINST_NAME\fR plugin=\fIPLUGIN_NAME\fR
.HP
config name=\fIINST_NAME\fR [producer=\fIPRDCR\fR] [instance=\fISET_NAME\fR]
[component_id=\fIINT\fR] [schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR] [job_set=\fIJOB_SET_NAME\fR]
[job_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR] [app_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
[job_start=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR] [job_end=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.\" restore default adjusting
.ad
.\" restore default hyphenation
.hy


.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), sampler plugins for the
ldmsd (ldms daemon) should inherit from the sampler_base base class. This class
defines variables that should be common to all samplers. It also adds them to
the sampler set set and handles their value assignment.

In order to configure a plugin, one should consult both the plugin specific man
page for the information and configuration arguments specific to the plugin and
this man page for the arguments in the sampler_base.


.SH LOADING PLUGIN INSTANCE
Plugin instance can be loaded with the following syntax:

\fBload\fR name=\fIINST_NAME\fR plugin=\fIPLUGIN_NAME\fR

For example, "load name=mynetdev plugin=procnetdev" command will load procnetdev
sampler plugin instance, and assign "mynetdev" instance name to it. The plugin
instance name must be unique among all loaded plugin instances (not just
samplers) within \fBldmsd\fR. A sampler plugin can can have multiple instances
loaded.

.SH PLUGIN INSTANCE CONFIGURATION

The following is the syntax to configure a plugin instance:

.ad l
.HP
\fBconfig\fR name=\fIINST_NAME\fR [producer=\fIPRDCR_NAME\fR]
[instance=\fISET_NAME\fR] [component_id=\fIINT\fR] [schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR]
[job_set=\fIJOB_SET_NAME\fR] [job_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
[app_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR] [job_start=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
[job_end=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.ad

.SS Options
.TP
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR
.br
This will be the name of the loaded plugin instance (from `load
name=\fIINST_NAME\fR`). The name must be unique within an LDMS daemon.
.TP
[producer=\fIPRDCR_NAME\fR]
.br
A unique name (across all daemons in the cluster )for \fBldmsd\fR producing the
data. The default is the name assigned by ldmsd CLI option \fB-n
\fIDAEMON_NAME\fR.
.TP
[instance=\fISET_NAME\fR]
.br
A unique name (across all daemons in the cluster) for the metric set created by
the sampler. In the case of multi-set sampler, the sampler can use this as a
prefix of the sets. The default value is \%"\fIPRDCR\fR/\fIINST_NAME\fR".
.TP
[schema=\fISCHEMA_NAME\fR]
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes
with different metrics have a different schema. Defaults to \fIINST_NAME\fR.
.TP
[component_id=\fIINT\fR]
.br
Optional unique number for the component being monitored, Defaults to zero.
.TP
[job_set=\fIJOB_SET_NAME\fR]
.br
The LDMS set instance name of the set containing the job data. The default is
"job_info".
.TP
[job_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.br
The name of the metric in the job set containing the Job Id. The default is
"job_id".
.TP
[app_id=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.br
The name of the metric in the job set containing the Application Id. The default
is "app_id".
.TP
[job_start=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.br
The name of the metric in the job set containing the Job start time. The default
is "job_start".
.TP
[job_end=\fIMETRIC_NAME\fR]
.br
The name of the metric in the job set containing the Job end time. The default
is "job_end".
.RE

.SH NOTES

.PP
.IP \[bu]
This man page does not cover usage of the base class in plugin development.
.PP


.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=mymem plugin=meminfo
config name=mymem producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/meminfo interval=1000000
start name=mymem
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO

.\" no hyphenation
.nh
.\" left justify
.ad l

.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR Plugin_all_example (7),
.BR Plugin_aries_linkstatus (7),
.BR Plugin_aries_mmr (7),
.BR Plugin_array_example (7),
.BR Plugin_clock (7),
.BR Plugin_cray_sampler_variants (7),
.BR Plugin_cray_dvs_sampler (7),
.BR Plugin_procdiskstats (7),
.BR Plugin_fptrans (7),
.BR Plugin_kgnilnd (7),
.BR Plugin_lnet_stats (7),
.BR Plugin_meminfo (7),
.BR Plugin_msr_interlagos (7),
.BR Plugin_perfevent (7),
.BR Plugin_procinterrupts (7),
.BR Plugin_procnetdev (7),
.BR Plugin_procnfs (7),
.BR Plugin_rapl (7),
.BR Plugin_sampler_atasmart (7),
.BR Plugin_sysclassib (7),
.BR Plugin_synthetic (7),
.BR Plugin_vmstat (7)
