.\" Manpage for run-static-tests.man
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "21 Aug 2020" "v4.3" "run-static-tests.test man page"

.SH NAME
run-static-tests.test \- Execute the program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
run-static-tests.test -l
.PP
run-static-tests.test -h
.PP
run-static-tests.test <input_file> [test_dir]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The run-static-tests.test initiates the ldms-static-test.test test 
on each enabled plugin. The stdout/stderr of each ldms-static-test.sh invocation
will be redirected to a log file and its output tree. This log file will then be tarred
and compressed when ldms-static-test.sh has finsihed. The return code of ldms-static-test.sh 
will then be checked by this driver script. If the return value is 0, then the script will
print "PASS $testname" and if the return value is 1, the script will print "FAIL $testname".  
Where testname is each invocation of ldms-static-test.sh of the enabled plugins.  
Please see ldms-static-test.man for more information. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-l
.br
List the enabled plugins.
.TP
-h
.br
List help message.

.SH LANGUAGE

The following macro language is provided as extensions on bash.
Other bash use is also possible, but not recommended.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
Uses the current set environment to run. Environment may need to be configured before excuting this test script.
.TP
input
.br
The name of the input file as specified when ldms-static-test.sh is invoked for each enabled plugin.
.TP
testname
.br
The base name (directories stripped) of the input file name.
This variable makes it possible to use similar input across many test
files when the name of the input file is the same as the plugin tested.
.TP
strict
.br
If the variable "strict" is used for KILL_LDMSD (ldms-static-test(8)) the script will output "FAIL $testname" and return an XFAIL to indicate an expected failure only if the test case plugin is listed in static-test-list. The stderr of ldms-static-test.sh will be redirected to the log file test.$testname.log under the default output location of test_dir. 
.TP
file
.br
The file "static-test-list" located in ldms/scripts/ defines a list of samplers that are expected to fail. If there is a failed test and the sampler is listed in this file, then run-static-test.sh will output an "XFAIL" and continue. Developers can modify this list to meet their needs.
.TP
bypass <1,0>
.br
This variable assignment is used to determine an expected failure (1) or normal failure (0) of a sampler plugin. This variable is set to (1) if the sampler is listed in $file and set to (0) otherwise. Used to test the successful and expected failures of each sampler plugin.


.SH NOTES
Any other variable may be defined and exported for use in the attribute/value
expansion of values in plugin configuration.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $input_file.$i
.br
For each value of i specifed to start an ldmsd, a configuration file named
$input_file.$i must also exist. This configuration file is used when starting the daemon.
.TP
.I test_dir
.br
Test output directory of ldms-static-test.sh.
The default output location is `pwd`/ldmstest/$testname.

.SH GENERATED FILES
.TP
.I $test_dir/test.$testname.log
.br
The log file containing stderr and stdout of ldms-static-test.sh.
.TP
.I $test_dir/test.$testname.tgz
.br
Location of the compressed file logfile.


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd-static-test.man
