.\" Manpage for Plugin_fptrans
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "15 Feb 2017" "v3" "LDMS Plugin fptrans man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_fptrans - man page for the LDMS fptrans plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=fptrans [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The fptrans plugin provides metrics that have well known values which can be used to test transmission and storage fidelity of single and double precision scalars and floating point arrays.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<set_name> [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be fptrans.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, it will default to `fptrans`.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.RE

.SH NOTES
The well known values used are 0, 1, and pi as determined by C macro M_PI.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=fptrans
config name=fptrans producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/fptrans
start name=fptrans interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
