.\" Manpage for syspapi_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin syspapi_sampler man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_syspapi_sampler - man page for the LDMSD syspapi_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.SY config
.BR name=syspapi_sampler
.BI producer= PRODUCER
.BI instance= INSTANCE
.OP \fBschema=\fISCHEMA
.OP \fBcomponent_id=\fICOMPONENT_ID
.OP \fBcfg_file=\fIPATH
.OP \fBevents=\fIEVENTS
.OP \fBcumulative=\fI0\fR|\fI1
.OP \fBauto_pause=\fI0\fR|\fI1
.YS


.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBsyspapi_sampler\fR collects system-wide hardware event counters using Linux
perf event (see \fBperf_event_open\fR(2)), but use PAPI event names.
\fBlibpapi\fR and \fBlibpfm\fR are used to translate PAPI event names to Linux
perf event attributes. In the case of per-process (job) data collection, please
see \fBPlugin_papi_sampler\fR. There are two approaches to define a list of
events: 1) \fBevents\fR option, or 2) PAPI JSON config file. For the
\fBevents\fR option, simply list the events of interest separated by comma (e.g.
events=PAPI_TOT_INS,PAPI_TOT_CYC). For the PAPI JSON config file (\fBcfg_file\fR
option), the format of the file is as follows:
.RS
.EX
{
    "schema": "my_syspapi",
    "events": [
       ...
    ]
}
.EE
.RE
The \fBschema\fR is optional, but if specified in the JSON config file, it
precedes the schema name given at the \fBconfig\fR command. The \fBevents\fR is
a list of PAPI event names (strings).

If both \fBcfg_file\fR and \fBevents\fR options are given to the config command,
the list are concatenated. Please note that an event that appears on both lists
will result in an error.

\fBauto_pause\fR=\fI1\fR (which is the default) makes \fBsyspapi_sampler\fR
paused the data sampling when receiving a notification from \fBpapi_sampler\fR
that a job is active, and resumed the data sampling when receiving a
notification from \fBpapi_sampler\fR that all jobs have terminated. This is to
prevent perf system resource contention. We have seen all 0 counters on
\fBpapi_sampler\fR without any errors (could be a silent error) when run it with
active \fBsyspapi_sampler\fR.

.SH CONFIG OPTIONS
.TP
.BR name=syspapi_sampler
This MUST be syspapi_sampler (the name of the plugin).
.TP
.BI producer= PRODUCER
The name of the data producer (e.g. hostname).
.TP
.BI instance= INSTANCE
The name of the set produced by this plugin.
.TP
.BI schema= SCHEMA
The optional schema name (default: syspapi_sampler). Please note that the
\fB"schema"\fR from the JSON \fBcfg_file\fR overrides this option.
.TP
.BI component_id= COMPONENT_ID
An integer identifying the component (default: \fI0\fR).
.TP
.BI cfg_file= PATH
The path to JSON-formatted config file. This is optional if \fBevents\fR option
is specified. Otherwise, this option is required.
.TP
.BI events= EVENTS
The comma-separated list of PAPI events of interest (e.g.
\fIPAPI_TOT_INS,PAPI_TOT_CYC\fR). This is optional if \fBcfg_file\fR is
specified.  Otherwise, this option is required.
.TP
.BI cumulative= 0 | 1
\fI0\fR (default) for non-cumulative data sampling (reset after read), or
\fI1\fR for cumulative data sampling.
.TP
.BI auto_pause= 0 | 1
\fI0\fR to ignore \fBpapi_sampler\fR pause/resume notification, or
\fI1\fR (default) to pause/resume according to notifications from
\fBpapi_sampler\fR.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
Plugin configuration example:

.RS
.EX
load name=syspapi_sampler
config name=syspapi_sampler producer=${HOSTNAME} \\
       instance=${HOSTNAME}/syspapi component_id=2 \\
       cfg_file=/tmp/syspapi.json
start name=syspapi_sampler interval=1000000 offset=0
.EE
.RE

JSON cfg_file example:

.RS
.EX
{
  "events": [
    "PAPI_TOT_INS",
    "PAPI_TOT_CYC"
  ]
}
.EE
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR Plugin_papi_sampler (7),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_sampler_base (7).
