.\" Manpage for Plugin_lustre2_client
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "26 Oct 2017" "v3.5" "LDMS Plugin lustre2_client man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_lustre2_client - man page for the LDMS lustre2_client plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
ldmsctl> config name=lustre2_client [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The lustre2_client plugin provides Lustre metric information.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
This plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the
configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this
plugin; see \fBldms_sampler_base\fR(7) for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BI config " " name "=<plugin_name> " \
    "<SAMPLER_BASE_OPTIONS> osc" "=<CSV> " mdc "=<CSV> " llite =<CSV> " osc_path =<oscpath> " mdc_path=<mdcpath> " llite_path=<llitepath>

.PP
Descriptions:
.RS
.TP
.BI name =<plugin_name>
This MUST be lustre2_client.
.TP
.B <SAMPLER_BASE_OPTIONS>
Please see \fBldms_sampler_base\fR(7) for sampler_base options.
.TP
.BI osc =<CSV>
CSV list of OSC's.
.TP
.BI mdc =<CSV>
CSV list of MDC's.
.TP
.BI llite =<CSV>
CSV list of LLITE's.
.TP
.BI osc_path =<oscpath>
A user custom path to osc.
.TP
.BI mdc_path =<mdcpath>
A user custom path to osc.
.TP
.BI llite_path =<llitepath>
A user custom path to llite.

.SH NOTES
.PP
For oscs,mdcs and llites: if not specified, NONE of the
oscs/mdcs/llites will be added. If {oscs,mdcs,llites} is set to *, all
of the available {oscs,mdcs,llites} at the time will be added.
.PP
The names that make up the list of oscs, mdcs and llites do not have
to include the uid part. For example, 'lustre-ffff8803245d4000' is the
actual file in /proc/fs/lustre/llite/, but you can just say llites=lustre to
include this component into the set.
.PP
osc_path, mdc_path, llite_path are optional full path names of stats files 
if not in default location. The default locations are: 
/sys/kernel/debug/lustre/{osc, mdc, llite}, and /proc/fs/lustre/{osc, mdc, llite} depends on the Lustre version.
Be aware that /sys/kernel/debug is only readable by privileged users.

.RE

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
load name=lustre2_client
config name=lustre2_client producer=compute1 component_id=1 instance=compute1/lustre2_client llites=*
ldmsctl> start name=lustre2_client interval=1000000
ldmsctl> quit
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldms_sampler_base "(7), " ldmsd "(8), " ldms_quickstart "(7), "
.BR ldmsd_controller (8)
