.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_derived_csv
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "5 Oct 2016" "v3" "LDMS Plugin store_derived_csv man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_derived_csv - man page for the LDMS store_derived_csv plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script:
.br
ldmsd_controller> load name=store_derived_csv
.br
ldmsd_controller> config name=store_derived_csv [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add plugin=store_derived_csv [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), store plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via
the ldmsd_controller. The store_derived_csv plugin is a CSV store.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> path=<path> derivedconf=<confname>[ altheader=<0/!0> ageusec=<ageusec> rolltype=<rolltype> rollover=<rollover> ]
.br
ldmsctl configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_derived_csv.
.TP
path=<path>
.br
The output files will be put into a directory whose root is specified by the path argument. This directory must exist; the subdirectories and files will be created. The full path to the output files will be <path>/<container>/<schema>. Typically these are chosen to make output files like: XXX/store_derived_csv/meminfo. If you choose a rollover option, then the filename will also be postpended by "-" followed by the epochtime e.g., XXX/store_derived_csv/meminfo-123456789.
.TP
derivedconf=<confname>
.br
Path to the derived configuration file. Format: metricname,schema,Raw/Rate=(0/1),multiplier. Metricname and schema uniquely identify the variable to match. Thus, if you have the same sampler on two different nodes having different schema, you can create a different derived metric for each. No extraneous whitespace (if the metric name has an internal whitespace, that whitespace needs to match exactly). One metric per line.
.TP
altheader=<0/!0>
.br
Distinguishes whether or not to write the header to a separate file than the data file. 0 = same file. Any non-zero is a separate file.
Default is the same file.If a separate file is used then, if the data file is called "meminfo" the additional header file will be called "meminfo.HEADER").
If you choose a rollover option, the header file name will be postpended with the epochtime, similar to the data file, and a new one will be written
at each rollover. Default is altheader=0.
.TP
ageusec=<ageusec>
.br
Set output data field Flag = 1 if the interval between two successive data reports for the same host's same metric set is greater than ageusec. (NOTE: in v3 this is now usec, not sec).
.TP
rolltype=<rolltype>
.br
By default, the store does not rollover and the data is written to a continously open filehandle. Rolltype and rollover are used in conjunction to enable the store to manage rollover, including flushing before rollover. The header will be rewritten when a roll occurs. Valid options are:
.RS
.TP
1
.br
wake approximately every rollover seconds and roll.
.TP
2
.br
wake daily at rollover seconds after midnight (>=0) and roll.
.TP
3
.br
roll after approximately rollover records are written.
.TP
4
roll after approximately rollover bytes are written.
.RE
.TP
rollover=<rollover>
.br
Rollover value controls the frequency of rollover (e.g., number of bytes, number of records, time interval, seconds after midnight). Note that these values are estimates.
.RE

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_derived_csv name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_csv.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written
(see path above).
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written
(see path above). The schema is also used to match the metric-schema combinations
identified in the derived configuration file.
.RE

.SH STORE COLUMN ORDERING

This store generates output columns in a sequence influenced by the sampler data registration. Specifically, the column ordering is
.PP
.RS
Time, Time_usec, DT, DT_usec, ProducerName, <sampled metric >*, Flag
.RE
.PP
Flag is as described for option ageusec.
.RE
.PP
The column sequence of <sampled metrics> is the order in which the metrics are added into the metric set by the derived csv store configuration file.

.SH STORE_DERIVED_CSV CONFIGURATION FILE
Derived Configration file format: metricname,schema,Raw/Rate=(0/1),multiplier.
.PP
Example:
.nf
.RS
$more /XXX/storeder.conf
sys#1,procstat,0,1
idle#0,procstat,1,1000000
Active,meminfoRHeL6,0,1
Active,meminfoRHeL7,0,1
user#0,procstat,1,1000000
junk,foo,0,1
#this is a comment
idle,procstat,0,1

MemTotal,meminfoRheL6,10
snx11024.stats.lockless_write_bytes,cray_aries_r,0,1
Z+_SAMPLE_GEMINI_LINK_CREDIT_STALL (% x1e6),cray_gemini_r,0,20
.RE
.fi

.PP
Blank lines are allowed in the file as shown
.PP
Any metric-schema pair can only be in the file once.

.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
The derived store has been deprecated. Please use the function store instead.
.IP \[bu]
If no metrics are defined for a schema, but that schema is being collected, timestamped data will still be written into files.
.IP \[bu]
All data writes out as uint64_t. The internal calculation is done as a double before being cast.
.IP \[bu]
You cannot specify the same metric-schema pair as both raw and rate.
.IP \[bu]
Please note the argument changes from v2, in particular that agesec has changed to ageusec.
.IP \[bu]
Please note the derived configuration file format has changed from v2.
.PP

.SH BUGS
store_derived_csv only handles uint64_t input data types.


.SH EXAMPLES
ldmsctl lines for configuring store_derived_csv:
.nf
ldmsd_controller> load name=store_derived_csv
ldmsd_controller> config name=store_csv altheader=1 derivedconf=/XXX/der.conf path=/XXX/storedir
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add name=csv_memRHeL6_policy plugin=store_derived_csv container=data_der schema=meminfoRHeL6
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add name=csv_memRHeL7_policy plugin=store_derived_csv container=data_der schema=meminfoRHeL7
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add name=csv_ps_policy plugin=store_derived_csv container=data_der schema=procstat
.if

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), Plugin_store_csv(7), Plugin_store_function_csv(7), ldms_quickstart(7)
