.\" Manpage for store_papi
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin store_papi man page"

\###############################################################################
.SH NAME

Plugin_store_papi - man page for the LDMSD store_papi plugin


\###############################################################################
.SH SYNOPSIS

Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:

.SY load
.BI name=store_papi

.SY config
.BI name=store_papi
.BI path= STORE_ROOT_PATH

.SY strgp_add
.BI name= STRGP_NAME
.BI plugin=store_papi
.BI container= CONTAINER
.BI schema= SCHEMA

.SY strgp_prdcr_add
.BI name= STRGP_NAME
.BI regex= PRDCR_REGEX
.YS


\###############################################################################
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBstore_papi\fR is an LDMSD storage plugin for storing data from
\fBpapi_sampler\fR specifically as it expects a collection of PAPI event
metrics after a certain job metric (task_ranks) that only \fBpapi_sampler\fR
produced. \fBstore_papi\fR stores data in a SOS container (specified by
\fBstrgp\fR \fBcontainer\fR option). Unlike \fBstore_sos\fR (see
\fBPlugin_store_sos\fR(7)) where an entire LDMS snapshot results in an SOS data
entry, \fBstore_papi\fR split the PAPI events in the set into their own schemas
and data points. For example, if we have PAPI_TOT_INS and PAPI_TOT_CYC as PAPI
events in the \fBpapi_sampler\fR set, we will have PAPI_TOT_INS and PAPI_TOT_CYC
schemas in the SOS container storing respective PAPI events. This allows
storing flexible, user-defined schemas at run-time by user jobs (LDMS schemas of
sets from \fBpapi_sampler\fR are defined at run-time by user jobs). Please note
that the schema name defined by user job must match \fBstrgp\fR's schema in
order to store the data.


\###############################################################################
.SH CONFIG OPTIONS

.TP
.BR name=store_papi
This MUST be store_papi (the name of the plugin).
.TP
.BI path= STORE_ROOT_PATH
The path to the root of the store. SOS container for each schema specified by
the storage policy (\fBstrgp\fR) will be placed in the \fISTORE_ROOT_PATH\fR
directory.


\###############################################################################
.SH STORAGE POLICY

An LDMSD storage plugin is like a storage driver that provides only storing
mechanism. A storage policy (\fBstrgp\fR) is a glue binding data sets from
various producers to a container of a storage plugin.

\fBstrgp_add\fR command defines a new storage policy, identified by \fBname\fR.
The \fBplugin\fR attribute tells the storage policy which storage plugin to work
with. The \fBschema\fR attribute identifies LDMS schema the data set of which
is consumed by the storage policy. The \fBcontainer\fR attribute identifies a
container inside the storage plugin that will store data.

\fBstrgp_prdcr_add\fR is a command to specify producers that feed data to the
storage policy.


\###############################################################################
.SH BUGS

No known bugs.


\###############################################################################
.SH EXAMPLES

Plugin configuration example:

.RS
.EX
load name=store_papi
config name=store_papi path=/var/store
strgp_add name=papi_strgp plugin=store_papi container=papi schema=papi
strgp_prdcr_add name=papi_strgp regex=.*
.EE
.RE


The following job script and PAPI JSON config combination is an example of
submiting a PAPI-enabled job that will end up in the storage of the
configuration above.

Job script example:

.RS
.EX
#!/bin/bash
export SUBSCRIBER_DATA='{"papi_sampler":{"file":"/tmp/papi.json"}}'
srun bash -c 'for X in {1..60}; do echo $X; sleep 1; done'
.EE
.RE

PAPI JSON example (/tmp/papi.json):

.RS
.EX
{
  "schema": "papi",
  "events": [
    "PAPI_TOT_INS",
    "PAPI_L1_DCM"
  ]
}
.EE
.RE


\###############################################################################
.SH SEE ALSO

.nh
.BR Plugin_papi_sampler (7),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_sampler_base (7).
