.\" Manpage for Plugin_lnet_stats
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin lnet stats man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_lnet_stats - man page for the LDMS lnet_stats plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=lnet_stats [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file.
The lnet_stats plugin provides memory info from /proc/sys/lnet/stats or
equivalent.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The lnet_stats plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname> file=<stats_path>]
.br
ldmsctl configuration line.
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be lnet_stats.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `lnet_stats`.
.TP
file=<stats_path>
.br
Optional full path name of stats file to use. If not supplied, the default search path described in NOTES is searched. Typically, this option is only used in test environments which may not have a real Lustre installation or in order to test transient disappearance of the file.

.SH NOTES
.PP
The default search path followed for LNET stats is:
/sys/kernel/debug/lnet/stats:/proc/sys/lnet/stats. Which file will exist, if either, depends on the
Lustre version and how many volumes are currently mounted. Be aware that /sys/kernel/debug normally is only readable by privileged users.
.PP
The stats file disappears when all mounts are unmounted or not yet mounted. While it is missing, the data set is not updated.

.PP
This assumes the file search path as described above, instead of looking it up from the Lustre runtime libraries.  This avoids compile time dependence on Lustre which may be upgraded
independently of LDMS. This is not considered a bug.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
load name=lnet_stats
config name=lnet_stats producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/lnet_stats component_id=10
start name=lnet_stats interval=1000000

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
