.\" Manpage for Plugin_clock
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "07 Nov 2017" "v3" "LDMS Plugin clock man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_clock - man page for the LDMS clock plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=clock [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The clock plugin provides a counter of samples taken since it started.
This is of pedagogical interest and useful for detecting situations where
a sample is missed either in being taken or in transmission.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<set_name> [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid> with_jobid=<bool>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be clock
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `clock`.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.TP
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
Option to collect job id with set or 0 if not.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=clock
config name=clock producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/clock
start name=clock interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
