.\" Manpage for store_slurm
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin store_slurm man page"

\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME

Plugin_store_slurm - man page for the LDMSD store_slurm plugin


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS

Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.SY load
.BI name=store_slurm

.SY config
.BI name=store_slurm
.BI path= STORE_ROOT_PATH
.OP \fBverbosity=\fR(\fI0\fR|\fI1\fR|\fI2\fR)

.SY strgp_add
.BI name= STRGP_NAME
.BI plugin=store_slurm
.BI container= CONTAINER
.BI schema=mt\-slurm

.SY strgp_prdcr_add
.BI name= STRGP_NAME
.BI regex= PRDCR_REGEX
.YS


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBstore_slurm\fR is an LDMSD storage plugin that stores job data from
\fBslurm_sampler\fR specifically, and must not be used with other data.


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH PLUGIN CONFIG OPTIONS

.TP
.BR name=store_slurm
This MUST be store_slurm (the name of the plugin).
.TP
.BI path= STORE_ROOT_PATH
The path to the root of the store. SOS container for each schema specified by
the storage policy (\fBstrgp\fR) will be placed in the \fISTORE_ROOT_PATH\fR
directory.
.TP
.BI verbosity=( 0 | 1 | 2 )
.RS
.TP
\fI0\fR
(default) for SUMMARY verbosity level. The storage plugin only stores single
entry for each job.
.TP
\fI1\fR
for RANK verbosity level. The storage plugin stores job data entry per each rank
(process) in the job.
.TP
\fI2\fR
for TIME (the most verbosed) verbosity level. The storage plugin stores job data
entries every time the slurm_sampler set is updated. In this verbosity level, we
would have a lot of job entries that are the same in everything except for the
timestamp.
.RE


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH STORAGE POLICY

An LDMSD storage plugin is like a storage driver that provides only storing
mechanism. A storage policy (\fBstrgp\fR) is a glue binding data sets from
various producers to a container of a storage plugin.

\fBstrgp_add\fR command defines a new storage policy, identified by \fBname\fR.
The \fBplugin\fR attribute tells the storage policy which storage plugin to work
with. The \fBschema\fR attribute identifies LDMS schema the data set of which
is consumed by the storage policy. The \fBcontainer\fR attribute identifies a
container inside the storage plugin that will store data.

The \fBschema\fR for \fBstore_slurm\fR is always \fImt\-slurm\fR as
\fBslurm_sampler\fR restricts "mt\-slurm" as its schema name.

\fBstrgp_prdcr_add\fR is a command to specify producers that feed data to the
storage policy.


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH BUGS

No known bugs.


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH EXAMPLES

Plugin configuration + prdcr example:

.RS
.EX
load name=store_slurm
config name=store_slurm path=/var/store verbosity=1
strgp_add name=slurm_strgp plugin=store_slurm container=slurm schema=mt-slurm
strgp_prdcr_add name=slurm_strgp regex=.*
.EE
.RE


\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SEE ALSO

.nh
.BR Plugin_slurm_sampler (7),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_sampler_base (7).
