.\" Manpage for Plugin_aries_mmr
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "01 Nov 2015" "v3" "LDMS Plugin for the aries_mmr sampler.

.SH NAME
Plugin_aries_mmr - man page for the aries_mmr sampler.

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=aries_mmr [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsctl.
The aries_mmr sampler provides aries network counter information. The particular counters to be read are
specified by configuration files. No functional combinations of the counters are supported (.i.e., does not sum
or scale values).

.PP
The aries_mmr sampler depends on Cray's libgpcd, built with aries options. This library is currently
unreleased and you cannot build this sampler, if you do not have the libraries and headers.

If you have the code to build the library, be sure to build with
.B CFLAGS=-fPIC

.PP
To build the aries_mmr sampler, build with the following flags:
.B  --enable-aries_mmr
.B   --with-aries-libgpcd=<full_path_to_libgpcd.a>,<full_path_to_lib_gpcd.h>

.SH LDMSCTL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<iname>  [(raw|rc|nic|ptile)file=<file> schema=<sname>]
.br
ldmsctl configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be aries_mmr
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer name string.
.TP
instance=<iname>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
schema=<sname>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a different schema. This will default to cray_aries_r or cray_gemini_r as appropriate, if unspecified.
.TP
rawfile=<file>
.br
Configuration file of aries performance counter names that will be added in exactly as they are specified (hence raw).
This file is optional, but at least one of file must be specified.
.TP
rcfile=<file>
.br
Configuration file of aries performance counter names that have row column dependencies. Use the base part of the name
and the prefix (AR_RTR_r_c) for all rows and columns will be added.
This file is optional, but at least one of file must be specified.
.TP
nicfile=<file>
.br
Configuration file of aries performance counter names for nics. Name will have 'n' which will be replaced for all nic vals (0-3).
This file is optional, but at least one of file must be specified.
.TP
ptilefile=<file>
.br
Configuration file of aries performance counter names for ptile. Name will have 'n' which will be replaced for all ptile vals (0-7).
This file is optional, but at least one of file must be specified.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
This is entirely independent of the cray_aries_r_sampler.
.IP \[bu]
At the moment, no functions of the data (either in the sampler or in a store) are supported.
.IP \[bu]
Counters whose names do not resolve are left out.
.IP \[bu]
This sampler may change at any time.
.IP \[bu]
.PP

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP Config files
> cat rawmetrics.txt
.br
#RAW METRICS
.br
AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_FLITS
.br

.br
AR_NIC_RSPMON_NPT_EVENT_CNTR_NL_FLITS
.br
# this is a test
.br

> cat rcmetrics.txt
.br
#RC METRICS -- strip the headers, they will be added...
.br
INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC0
.br
INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
.br

> cat nicmetrics.txt
.br
#NIC METRICS -- n will be replaced for all n
.br
AR_NL_PRF_REQ_PTILES_TO_NIC_n_FLITS

> cat ptilemetrics.txt
.br
#PTILE METRICS -- p will be replaced for all p
.br
AR_NL_PRF_PTILE_p_REQ_IN_NW_FLITS
.br
AR_NL_PRF_PTILE_p_REQ_IN_NW_PKTS


.PP Starting
ldmsctl> load name=aries_mmr
.br
ldmsctl>  config name=aries_mmr producer=localhost2 instance=localhost2/aries_mmr schema=aries_mmr rcfile=/home/XXX/rcmetrics.txt rawfile=/home/XXX/rawmetrics.txt
.br
ldmsctl> start name=aries_mmr interval=1000000
.br

.PP Output
> ldms_ls
localhost2/aries_mmr: consistent, last update: Wed Oct 28 08:48:36 2015 [153343us]
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_7_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_6_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64        699923330 AR_RTR_4_5_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_4_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_3_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_2_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_1_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_4_0_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64       2402304628 AR_RTR_3_7_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64        636514773 AR_RTR_3_6_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64       7632505254 AR_RTR_3_5_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64       7009139188 AR_RTR_3_4_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_3_3_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_3_2_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_3_1_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_3_0_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64       4411960959 AR_RTR_2_7_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64                0 AR_RTR_2_6_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 u64       8961334661 AR_RTR_2_5_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC1
 ....
 u64                0 AR_RTR_0_2_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC0
 u64                0 AR_RTR_0_1_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC0
 u64                0 AR_RTR_0_0_INQ_PRF_INCOMING_FLIT_VC0
 u64       5968204876 AR_NIC_RSPMON_NPT_EVENT_CNTR_NL_FLITS
 u64       4182142522 AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_FLITS


.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldms(7), Plugin_cray_sampler_variants(7)
