.\" Manpage for Plugin_procstat
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "03 Dec 2016" "v3" "LDMS Plugin procstat man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procstat - man page for the LDMS procstat plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.br
config name=procstat [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The procstat plugin provides cpu utilization info from /proc/stat,
allowing for hyperthreading and downed core variability.
As hyperthreading might be variable and user selectable depending 
on system configuration, the maximum number of cores potentially appearing
should be set in the plugin options with the maxcpu parameter.
Cores not actually appearing will be reported as 0 values.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<set_name> [component_id=<compid> schema=<sname>] [with_jobid=<bool>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be procstat.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer name value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `procstat`.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.TP
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
Option to collect jobid with set or 0 if not.
.TP
maxcpu=<core count>
.br
Values are 0 to N, where 0 logs only totalized data and N reserves slots for N cores. If less than N cores are found, 0-values are reported. If more than N cores are found, they are ignored with an INFO note in the log.  Default is the number of cores found locally when the sampler is started.  If machines monitored may have cores disabled or variable hyperthreading  status, set maxcpu to the most cores that will be reported anywhere in the cluster.
.RE

.SH DATA
This reports both interrupt count and time processing them. For detailed interrupt data by type, another plugin that reads /proc/interrupts must be created.

.SH BUGS
Reporting all interrupts by name is not implemented.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=procstat
config name=procstat producer=vm1_1 component_id=1 maxcpu=4 instance=vm1_1/procstat with_jobid=0
start name=procstat interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
Kernel source fs/proc/stat.c and proc(5), ldmsd(8), ldmsd_controller(8)
