.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_csv
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "24 Oct 2018" "v3.11" "LDMS Plugin store_csv man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_csv - man page for the LDMS store_csv plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script or a configuration file:
.br
load name=store_csv
.br
config name=store_csv action=init [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br
config name=store_csv action=custom container=<c_name> schema=<s_name> [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br
strgp_add plugin=store_csv container=<c_name> schema=<s_name> [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), store plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via
the ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The store_csv plugin is a CSV store.
.PP

.SH STORE_CSV INIT CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The configuration parameters altheader, rolltype, rollover, rollagain, buffer, buffertype, notify, transportdata and rename_template are applied to all metric sets alike.
A subset of these can be overriden by the action=custom values.
.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> action=init path=<path> [ altheader=<0/!0> buffer=<0/1/N> buffertype=<3/4> rolltype=<rolltype> rollover=<rollover> userdata=<0/!0>] [notify=<path> [notify_isfifo=<bool>]] [rename_template=<metapath> [rename_uid=<int-uid> [rename_gid=<int-gid] rename_perm=<octal-mode>]] [create_uid=<int-uid>] [create_gid=<int-gid] [create_perm=<octal-mode>] [transportdata=<met_letters>]
.br
ldmsd_controller configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_csv.
.TP
action=init
.br
For action=init, the remaining attributes can be specified and will be used for
all metric sets, unless overriden by the action=custom values.
.TP
path=<path>
.br
The output files will be put into a directory whose root is specified by the path argument. This directory must exist; the subdirectories and files will be created. The full path to the output files will be <path>/<container>/<schema>. Container and schema are set when the strgp is added. If you choose a rollover option, then the filename will also be postpended by "-" followed by the epochtime e.g., XXX/meminfo_ctr/meminfo-123456789.
.TP
altheader=<0/!0>
.br
Distinguishes whether or not to write the header to a separate file than the data file. 0 = same file. Any non-zero is a separate file. Default is the same file.
If a separate file is used then, if the data file is called "meminfo" the additional header file will be called "meminfo.HEADER"). If you choose a rollover option, the header file name will be postpended with the epochtime, similar to the data file, and a new one will be written at each rollover. Default is altheader=0.
.TP
userdata=<0/!0>
.br
Distinguishes whether or not to write each metrics' user data along with each data value. 0 = no write. Any non-zero means to write the values. Default is to not write.
.TP
buffer=<0/1/N>
.br
Distinguishes whether or not to buffer the data for the writeout. 0 = does not buffer. 1 enables buffering with the system determining the flush. N will flush after approximately N kB of data (> 4) or N lines -- buffertype determines which of these it is. Default is system controlled buffering (1).
.TP
buffertype=<3/4>
.br
If buffer=N then buffertype determines if the buffer parameter refers to kB of writeout or number of lines. The values are the same as in rolltype, so only 3 and 4 are applicable.
.TP
rolltype=<rolltype>
.br
By default, the store does not rollover and the data is written to a continously open filehandle. Rolltype and rollover are used in conjunction to enable the store to manage rollover, including flushing before rollover. The header will be rewritten when a roll occurs. Valid options are:
.RS
.TP
1
.br
wake approximately every rollover seconds and roll.
.TP
2
.br
wake daily at rollover seconds after midnight (>=0) and roll.
.TP
3
.br
roll after approximately rollover records are written.
.TP
4
roll after approximately rollover bytes are written.
.TP
5
.br
wake at rollover seconds after midnight (>=0) and roll, then repeat every rollagain (> rollover) seconds during the day. For example "rollagain=3600 rollover=0 rolltype=5" rolls files hourly.
.RE
.TP
rollover=<rollover>
.br
Rollover value controls the frequency of rollover (e.g., number of bytes, number of records, time interval, seconds after midnight). Note that these values are estimates.
.TP
notify=<notice_path>
.br
The path for the file event notices. If unspecified, no notices are sent. See NOTICES below for details of event notices.
.TP
notify_isfifo=<bool>
.br
Default false. If set true, notice_path will be handled in a nonblocking manner as a FIFO.
.TP
create_perm=<modebits>
.br
Only octal (e.g.0744) specifications are allowed. If unspecified or 0 is given, then no change is made. The default permission is 0600 for data files. The mode specified can include execute bits which will apply to intermediate directories created but not data files. For example 0755 will yield 0755 for new directories and 0644 for data files.
.TP
create_uid=<numeric-uid>
.br
Specify a new user id for data files. If unspecified, no change in user ownership is made.
Changes in ownership of the files do not affect intermediate directories.
.TP
create_gid=<numeric-gid>
.br
Specify a new group id for data files. If unspecified, no change in group ownership is made.
.TP
rename_template=<metapath>
.br
This option relocates closed CSV files, typically to a subdirectory, for processing by other tools that watch directories. The metapath template is applied to define a new name after file closure. The rename is limited to locations on the same mount point, per the C rename(2) call. Substitutions (%) in the provided template are performed as described in METAPATH SUBSTITUTIONS below.
Errors in template specification will cause the rename to be skipped. As part of the renaming process, the mode and ownership of the file may also be adjusted by specifying rename_perm, rename_uid, and rename_gid. Missing intermediate directories will be created if possible. To enable greater flexibility than the renaming just described (e.g. crossing file systems), the notify option must be used to call another program.

.TP
rename_perm=<modebits>
.br
Only octal (e.g.0744) specifications are allowed. If unspecified or 0 is given, then no change is made. The permissions are changed before the rename and even if the rename fails. This option is applied only if rename_template is applied.
.TP
rename_uid=<numeric-uid>
.br
Specify a new user id for the file. If unspecified, no change in user ownership is made.
Changes in ownership of the files do not affect intermediate directories that might be created following the template. This option is applied only if rename_template is applied.
.TP
rename_gid=<numeric-gid>
.br
Specify a new group id for the file. If unspecified, no change in group ownership is made. This option is applied only if rename_template is applied.

.TP
transportdata=<met_letters>
.br
The supported met_letters are "acdgimprst0N", where inclusion of a character in the transportdata option turns on metrics as follows: "a" (all) is equivalent "cdgimprt"; "c" enables logging 'consistent'; "d" enables logging duration; "g" enables logging data generation number; "i" enables logging pthread and kthread identifiers; "m" enables logging metadata generation number, "p" enables logging set memory address at the store, "r" enables logging store arrival timestamp, "t" enables logging trip time.  See TRANSPORT DATA below for the meaning of these metrics.  The character '0' turns off all transport data output and reenables regular metric output. The character 'N' turns off regular metric output.  The default if transportdata is not given is "0".  The 'regular' metrics for the case of 'N' are all non-transport data metrics after the 'ProducerName' column. Any characters following 'a' and '0' are ignored. For sampler performance analysis, only "d" is needed.
.RE


.SH STORE_CSV CUSTOM CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The configuration parameters set by action=init are applied to all metric sets alike,
unless overriden by the action=custom values. Only a subset can be overridden.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> action=custom container=<container> schema=<schema> [ altheader=<0/!0> userdata=<0/!0>] [notify=<path> [notify_isfifo=<bool>]] [rename_template=<metapath> [rename_uid=<int-uid> [rename_gid=<int-gid] rename_perm=<octal-mode>]] [create_uid=<int-uid>] [create_gid=<int-gid] [create_perm=<octal-mode>] [transportdata=met_letters]

.br
ldmsd_controller configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_csv.
.TP
action=custom
.br
This MUST be custom
.TP
altheader=<0/!0>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema together uniquely distinguish the sets that the custom arguments will target
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and the schema together uniquely distinguish the sets that the custom arguments will target
.TP
userdata=<0/!0>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
notify=<notice_path>
.br
The path for the file event notices. If unspecified, no notices are sent. See NOTICES below for details of event notices.
.TP
notify_isfifo=<bool>
.br
Default false. If set true, notice_path will be handled in a nonblocking manner as a FIFO.
.TP
create_perm=<modebits>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
create_uid=<numeric-uid>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
create_gid=<numeric-gid>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
rename_template=<metapath>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
rename_perm=<modebits>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
rename_uid=<numeric-uid>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.TP
rename_gid=<numeric-gid>
.br
Overrides the default value set in action = init. Definition is as above.
.RE

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_csv name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_csv.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above). They also are used to match any action=custom configuration.node/meminfo.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above). They also are used to match any action=custom configuration.node/meminfo.
You can have multiples of the same sampler, but with different schema (which means they will have different metrics) and they will be stored in different files.
.RE

.SH STORE COLUMN ORDERING

This store generates output columns in a sequence influenced by the sampler data registration. Specifically, the column ordering is
.PP
.RS
Time, Time_usec, ProducerName, <transportdata>*, <sampled metric >*
.RE
.PP
where each <sampled metric> is either
.PP
.RS
<metric_name>.userdata, <metric_name>.value
.RE
.PP
or if userdata has been opted not to include, just:
.PP
.RS
<metric_name>
.RE
.PP
and where each <transportdata> fields appear only if enabled.
.PP
.PP
The column sequence of <sampled metrics> is the order in which the metrics are added into the metric set by the sampler (or the order they are specifed by the user).
.QP
Note that the sampler's number and order of metric additions may vary with the kind and number of hardware features enabled on a host at runtime or with the version of kernel. Because of this potential for variation, down-stream tools consuming the CSV files should always determine column names or column number of a specific metric by parsing the header line or .HEADER file.
.PP

.SH NOTICES OF STORE FILE EVENTS
.PP
When the notify option is specified one-line notices of file events (open, close) are written to the named output. Post-processing tools can watch the notification file.  When combined with a roll-over configuration, this provides notices of files rolled over. The notify option should not be combined with the rename_template option, as the rename happens after notification.
.PP
If the named output is a plain file, it will be written to indefinitely. Typical use is to tail the file into a file-handling script and to periodically rotate  or truncate it as a log file. The file is buffered, so notices may be received some time after the event recorded.
.PP
If the named output is a FIFO, it is handled in a non-blocking fashion. When no FIFO reader is processing, event messages are queued (up to 1000 messages for up to 6000 seconds). Messages older than the time limit are removed. When the queue size is exceeded, the oldest messages are removed. Typical use of the FIFO is to cat it into a file-handling script.
.PP
The event line format is:
.RS
EVENT SOURCE CONTAINER SCHEMA TYPE FILENAME
.RE
where the fields are
.RS
.TP
EVENT
.br
One of OPENED, CLOSED.
.TP
SOURCE
.br
The name of the plugin.
.TP
CONTAINER
.br
The name of the container.
.TP
SCHEMA
.br
The name of the schema.
.TP
TYPE
.br
The type of information in the file. Current values are "data" and "header".
Anticipated values from other plugins in development include: "summary" (for
statistical data about files closed), and
"kind", "cname", "pyname", and "units" (for auxiliary columnar data about metrics).
.TP
FILENAME
.br
The name of the file.

.RE

.SH METAPATH SUBSTITUTION

The following % escape sequence replacements are performed on the rename_template value for file renamings:
.PP
.TP
%P 
.br
plugin name
.TP
%C
.br
container name
.TP
%S
.br
schema name
.TP
%T 
.br
file event notification type
.TP
%B
.br
basename(closed-file-name)
.TP
%D
.br
dirname(closed-file-name)
.TP
%{ENV_VAR_NAME}
.br
getenv(ENV_VAR_NAME). The use of undefined or empty environment vars yields an empty substitution, not an error.
Characters in the environment variable are restricted to: 'A-Za-z0-9%@()+-_./:='; other characters present will prevent the rename.
.TP
%s
.br
timestamp suffix, if it exists. 
.PP

.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
Please note the argument changes from v2.
.IP \[bu]
The 'sequence' option has been removed.
.PP

.SH TRANSPORT DATA
The consistency of the set (consistent) is 1 normally and 0 if the set data was transported in the middle of sampling. In the absence of ldmsd bugs, 0 is never be seen because the updater does not send inconsistent sets to the storage policies. If consistent is 0, all other metric values (excepting setptr, producer name and component_id, but including timestamp) are invalid.

The duration value is the time spent in metric set collection at the producer. 
It is usually under a millisecond.

The arrival value is approximately the wall clock time when the set is passed to the store function.
It may be subject to clock skew relative to the data producer.

The trip value is the time spent in transit from the producer to the store arrival.
It includes the difference in offsets from sampler to updater and may be
subject to clock skew. Ideally, the trip time is very similar within the sampling period for all sets similarly scheduled.

The data generation number (datagn) is an increasing (with rollover possible at UINT64_MAX) indicating the number of times any metric value has been updated in the set. 

The metadata generation number (metagn) is an increasing (with rollover possible at UINT64_MAX) indicating the number of times any metadata value has been updated in the set. 

The thread metrics refer to the thread delivering the metric set instance; pthread is the pthread integer identifier from pthread_self() and kthread is the kernel thread id from gettid().

The memory address (setptr) is the hexadecimal pointer value for the set instance in store daemon (local) memory. It is only expected to change when connections change or the upstream data source changes the set definition.


.SH BUGS
There is a maximum of 20 concurrent CSV stores.

.SH IMPERFECT FEATURES
The rename and create options do not accept symbolic permissions, uid, or gid. There is no metapath substitution for file creation.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.nf
load name=store_csv
config name=store_csv action=init altheader=1 path=/XXX/storedir
config name=store_csv action=custom container=loadavg_store schema=loadavg
strgp_add name=csv_mem_policy plugin=store_csv container=loadavg_store schema=loadavg
.fi
Or with modifications for file properties
.nf
load name=store_csv
config name=store_csv action=init altheader=1 rolltype=2 rollover=0 path=/mprojects/ovis/ClusterData/${LDMSCLUSTER} create_gid=1000000039 create_perm=640 rename_template=%D/archive-spool/%{HOSTNAME}/%B rename_perm=444
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
