.\" Manpage for slurm_notifier
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "SPANK Plugin slurm_notifier man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_slurm_notifier - man page for the SPANK slurm_notifier plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within plugstack.conf:
.SY required
.IR OVIS_PREFIX / LIBDIR /ovis-ldms/libslurm_notifier.so
.BI stream= STREAM_NAME
.BI timeout= TIMEOUT_SEC
.BI client= XPRT : HOST : PORT : AUTH
.RB ...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBslurm_notifier\fR is a SPANK plugin that notifies \fBldmsd\fR about job
events (e.g. job start, job termination) and related information (e.g. job_id,
task_id, task process ID). The notification is done over \fBldmsd_stream\fR
publish mechanism. \fBslurm_sampler\fR (see \fBPlugin_slurm_sampler\fR(7)) and
\fBpapi_sampler\fR (see \fBPlugin_papi_sampler\fR) are known plugins that
subscribe to the notification.

.BI stream= STREAM_NAME
specifies the name of publishing stream. The default value is \fIslurm\fR.

.BI timeout= TIMEOUT_SEC
is the number of seconds determining the time-out of the LDMS connections
(default \fI5\fR).

.BI client= XPRT : HOST : PORT : AUTH
specifies \fBldmsd\fR to which \fBslurm_notifier\fR publishes the data.
The \fIXPRT\fR specifies the type of the transport, which includes
.BR sock ", " rdma ", " ugni .
The \fIHOST\fR is the hostname or the IP address that \fBldmsd\fR resides. The
\fIPORT\fR is the listeing port of the \fBldmsd\fR. The \fIAUTH\fR is the
LDMS authentication method that the \fBldmsd\fR uses, which are
.BR munge ", or " none .
The \fBclient\fR option can be reapeted to specify multiple \fBldmsd\fR's.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
/etc/slurm/plugstack.conf:

.RS
.EX
required /opt/ovis/lib64/ovis-ldms/libslurm_notifier.so \
stream=slurm timeout=5 client=sock:localhost:10000:munge \
client=sock:node0:10000:munge
.EE
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR spank (8),
.BR Plugin_slurm_sampler (8),
.BR Plugin_papi_sampler (8),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
