.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_kafka
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "2 Jun 2022" "v4" "LDMS Plugin store_kafka man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_kafka - man page for the LDMS store_kafka plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script:
.br
ldmsd_controller> load name=store_kafka
.br
ldmsd_controller> config name=store_kafka [path=<KAFKA_CONFIG_JSON_FILE>]
.br
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add name=<NAME> plugin=store_kafka
                            container=<KAFKA_SERVER_LIST>
                            decomposition=<DECOMP_CONFIG_JSON_FILE>
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBstore_kafka\fP uses librdkafka to send rows from the decomposition to the
Kafka servers (specified by strgp's \fIcontainer\fP parameter) in JSON format.
The row JSON objects have the following format:
{ "column_name": COLUMN_VALUE, ... }.


.SH PLUGIN CONFIGURATION
.SY config
.BI name= store_kafka
.OP \fBpath=\fIKAFKA_CONFIG_JSON_FILE\fR
.YS

Configuration Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI name= store_kafka
.br
The name of the plugin. This must be \fBstore_kafka\fR.

.TP
.BI path= KAFKA_CONFIG_JSON_FILE
The optional KAFKA_CONFIG_JSON_FILE contains a dictionary with KEYS being Kafka
configuration properties and VALUES being their corresponding values.
\fBstore_kafka\fR usually does not require this option. The properties in the
KAFKA_CONFIG_JSON_FILE is applied to all Kafka connections from store_kafka.
Please see
.UR \:https://github.com/edenhill/librdkafka/blob/master/CONFIGURATION.md
librdkafka CONFIGURATION page
.UE
for a list of supported properties.
.RE


.SH STRGP CONFIGURATION
.SY strgp_add
.BI name= NAME
.BR plugin= store_kafka
.BI container= KAFKA_SERVER_LIST
.BI decomposition= DECOMP_CONFIG_JSON_FILE
.YS

strgp options:
.RS
.TP
.BI name= NAME
.br
The name of the strgp.

.TP
.BR plugin= store_kafka
.br
The plugin must be store_kafka.

.TP
.BI container= KAFKA_SERVER_LIST
.br
A comma-separated list of Kafka servers (host[:port]). For example:
container=localhost,br1.kf:9898.

.TP
.BI decomposition= DECOMP_CONFIG_JSON_FILE
.br
Set-to-row decomposition configuration file (JSON format). See more about
decomposition in \fBldmsd_decomposition\fP(7).

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd_decomposition(7)
