.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_rabbitv3
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "03 Dec 2016" "v3" "LDMS Plugin store_rabbitv3 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_rabbitv3 - man page for the LDMS store_rabbitv3 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.br
load name=store_rabbitv3
.br
config name=store_rabbitv3 [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br
strgp_add name=store_rabbitv3 [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The store_rabbitv3 plugin is a rabbitmq producer. Actual storage of data must be arranged separately by configuring some other amqp client.
.PP

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

The configuration parameters root, host, port, exchange, vhost, user, and pwfile are shared across all metric sets.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> root=<root> host=<host> port=<port> exchange=<exch> vhost=<vhost> user=<user> pwfile=<auth> extraprops=<y/n> metainterval=<mint>
.br
These parameters are:
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_rabbitv3.
.TP
root=<root>
.br
The routing key prefix shared by all metric sets will be <root>.
.TP
host=<host>
.br
The rabbitmq server host. The default is localhost.
.TP
port=<port number>
.br
The server port on the nearest rabbitmq host. The default is 5672.
.TP
exchange=<exch>
.br
The amqp exchange to publish with is <exch>. The default is amq.topic.
.TP
vhost=<vhost>
.br
The virtual host to be used is <vhost>. The default is "/".
.TP
user=<user>
.br
The amqp username is <user>. The default is "guest".
.TP
pwfile=<auth>
.br
The file <auth> contains the amqp user password in the format 'secretword=password. The default password "guest" is assumed if no file is specified.
.TP
extraprops=<y/n>
.br
Turn on (y) or off (n) the use of extra properties with all messages.
.TP
mint
.br
The number of seconds between emission of time and host invariant (meta) metrics.
.RE


.SH STORE ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR store
name=<plugin_name> schema=<schema_name> container=<container>
.br
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_rabbitv3.
.TP
schema=<schema_name>
.br
The name of the metric group, independent of the host name.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container will be used in the routing key. The current routing key patterns is:
<root>.<container>.<schema>.<metric_name_amqp>.<producer_name>

Use a unique container parameter for different metric sets coming from different sampler (e.g., do not use the same container for procstat and meminfo); however, use the same container for the same metric set coming from all hosts (e.g., for all meminfo).

.RE

.SH AMQ event contents

This store generates rabbitmq events. The message in each event is just the metric value in string form. The message properties of each event encode everything else.
.PP
The properties follow the AMQP standard, with LDMS specific interpretations:
.RS
.TP
timestamp
.br
The sample collection time in MICROSECONDS UTC. Divide by 1,000,000 to get seconds UTC.
.TP
type
.br
The ldms metric data type.
.TP
app_id
.br
The app_id is the integer component_id, if it has been defined by the sampler.
.SH Optional AMQ event contents
These fields and headers are present if extraprops=y is configured.
.TP
content_type
.br
<"text/plain"> for all.
.TP
reply_to
.br
The producer name.
.TP
metric
.br
The label registered by the sampler plugin, which might be anything.
.TP
metric_name_amqp
.br
The label modified to work as a routing key, not necessarily easily read.
.TP
metric_name_least
.br
The label modified to work as a programming variable name, possibly shortened and including a hash suffix. Not expected to be fully human-readable in all cases.
It will be the same across runs for metric sets whose content labels do not vary across runs.
.TP
container
.br
The container configuration name.
.TP
schema
.br
The schema configuration name.
.RE

.SH PAYLOAD FORMAT

Payloads are ASCII formatted.
.PP
Scalar values are formatted in obvious C ways to ensure full precision is retained. Each is a doublet: type,value
.PP
Array values are formatted as comma separated lists: type,array-length,value[,value]*.
.PP
Char array values omit the commas in the value list, giving the appearance of a string. Note however that there may be embedded nul characters.

.SH NOTES
.PP
The semantics of LDMS messages are not an extremely close match to network mail and news messages. The interpretations on message properties used here may be subject to change in major releases of LDMS.
.PP
The authentication to AMQP server uses the SASL plaintext method. In HPC environments this is normally secure. Additional options enabling encryption are likely to appear in future work at a cost in CPU. Normally, an amqp server federation member should be hosted on or very near the LDMS aggregator host.

.SH BUGS
.PP
The periodic emission of meta metrics should be per (producer,metric) pair,
but the store API is not yet sufficient to make this a scalable and efficient
operation. In the meanwhile, meta metrics are emitted on first definition and assumed to be identical for a metric set across all producers. The special case of component_id (if present) is handled correctly when extraprops=y is configured.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See the LDMS test script ldms_local_amqptest.sh.

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), rabbitmq-server(1), ldmsd_controller(8)
