.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_flatfile
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "29 Aug 2017" "v3.4" "LDMS Plugin store_flatfile man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_flatfile - man page for the LDMS store_flatfile plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script or a configuration file:
.br
load name=store_flatfile
.br
config name=store_flatfile path=datadir [ignore=blacklist] [include=whitelist]
.br
strgp_add plugin=store_flatfile [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
The flatfile store generates one file per metric with time, producer, component id, and value columns separated by spaces. The file name is $datadir/$container/$schema/$metric_name. Metrics can be whitelisted or blacklisted independent of schema (globally).

.PP
.SH CONFIG GLOBAL OPTION
Metric name whitelist/blacklist globally is allowed by supplying either ignore or include option, but not both. Schema-specific filtering is done via strgp configuration.
.TP
.BR ignore=blacklist_file
.br
Read metric names to ignore from file blacklist_file.
.br
.TP
.BR include=whitelist_file
.br
Read metric names to include from file whitelist_file.
.br
.PP
Lines may be commented out with a leading # in either file.
Only one of ignore or include is used. If both are given, whitelist is used.

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_flatfile name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_flatfile.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above). They also are used to match any action=custom configuration.node/meminfo.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and schema determines where the output files will be written (see path above).
.RE


.SH NOTES
.PP
Please note the argument changes from v2.
.PP

.SH BUGS
Numeric array metrics are not presently supported.
The store is brittle to schema with multiple definitions, though it ought not to be.
There is no option to quote string values, handle rollover, or handle buffering.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.nf
load name=store_flatfile
config name=store_flatfile path=/XXX/datadir whitelist=/XXX/whitelist.txt

# log only Active from the meminfo sampler
strgp_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo plugin=store_flatfile schema=meminfo container=flat
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo regex=localhost1
strgp_metric_add name=store_flatfile_meminfo metric=Active
strgp_start name=store_flatfile_meminfo regex=localhost1

# log all from vmstat
strgp_add name=store_flatfile_vmstat plugin=store_flatfile schema=vmstat container=flat
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_flatfile_vmstat regex=localhost1
strgp_start name=store_flatfile_vmstat regex=localhost1

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
