.\" Manpage for Plugin_fptrans
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin synthetic man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_fptrans - man page for the LDMS synthetic plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=synthetic [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The synthetic plugin provides metrics yielding waves offset by component_id

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The fptrans plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.


.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>] [origin=<f> height=<f> period=<f>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be synthetic
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, it will default to `synthetic`.
.TP
origin=<origin>
.br
The zero time for periodic functions.
.TP
height=<height>
.br
The amplitude of functions.
.TP
period=<period>
.br
The function period.
.RE

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=synthetic
config name=synthetic producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/synthetic
start name=synthetic interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
