.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_sos
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "21 Dec 2015" "v3" "LDMS Plugin store_sos man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_sos - man page for the LDMS store_sos plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script:
.br
ldmsd_controller> load name=store_sos
.br
ldmsd_controller> config name=store_sos path=path
.br
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add plugin=store_sos [ <attr> = <value> ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), store plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via
the ldmsd_controller. The store_sos plugin is a sos store.
.PP
To build the store_sos, build with the following flag:
.B --enable_sos

.SH STORE_SOS INIT CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> path=<path>
.br
ldmsd_controller configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_sos.
.TP
path=<path>
.br
The store will be put into a directory whose root is specified by the path argument. This directory must exist; the store will be created. The full path to the store will be <path>/<container>. The schema(s) determine the schemas of the data base. Container and schema are set when the strgp is added.
.RE

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line identifies the container and schema for a store.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_sos name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
[decomposition=<DECOMP_CONFIG_FILE_JSON>]
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_sos.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and schema define the store as described above (see path).
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and schema define the store as described above (see path).
You can have multiples of the same path and container, but with different schema (which means they will have different metrics) and they will be stored in the same store.
.TP
decomposition=<DECOMP_CONFIG_FILE_JSON>
.br
Optionally use set-to-row decomposition with the specified configuration file in
JSON format. See more about decomposition in ldmsd_decomposition(7).
.RE


.SH USING SOS COMMANDS TO MANAGE PARTITIONS
Some of the basic sos commands are given below. SOS tools will be built into XXX.
Any commands given with no argument, will return usage info.

.TP
.BR sos_part_query
<container>
.br
List the partitions defined in a container.

.TP
.BR sos_part_create
-C <path> [<attr>=<value>] part_name
.br
Create a partition.
.br
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.TP
.BI -s " state"
.br
State of the new partition (case insensitive). Default is OFFLINE. Optional parameter.
Valid options are:
.IP \[bu]
PRIMARY: all new allocations go in this partition
.IP \[bu]
ONLINE: objects are accessible, but the partition does not grow
.IP \[bu]
OFFLINE: object references are invalid; the partition may be moved or deleted.
.TP
.BR part_name
.br
Name of the partition
.RE

.TP
.BR sos_part_delete
-C <path> <name>
.br
Delete a partition in a container. The partition must be in the OFFLINE state to be
deleted.
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.TP
.BI name
.br
Name of the parition
.RE

.TP
.BR sos_part_modify
-C <path> [<attr>=<value>] part_name
.br
Modify the state of a partition.
.br
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.TP
.BI -s " state"
.br
State of the new partition (case insensitive). Default is OFFLINE. Optional parameter.
Valid options are:
.IP \[bu]
PRIMARY: all new allocations go in this partition
.IP \[bu]
ONLINE: objects are accessible, but the partition does not grow
.IP \[bu]
OFFLINE: object references are invalid; the partition may be moved or deleted.
.TP
.BR part_name
.br
Name of the partition
.RE

.TP
.BR sos_part_move
.br
Move a partition to another storage location.
-C <path> -p <new_path> part_name
.br
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.TP
.BI -p " <new_path>"
.br
The new path.
.TP
.BR part_name
.br
Name of the partition
.RE

.SH USING SOS COMMANDS TO LOOK AT DATA IN A PARTITION
sos_cmd can be used to get data from an sos instance. Some relevant command options are below.
Example usage is in the example section.


.TP
.BR sos_cmd
-C <path> -l
.br
Print a directory of the schemas.
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.RE

.TP
.BR sos_cmd
-C <path> -i
.br
Show debug information for the container
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.RE

.TP
.BR sos_cmd
-C <path> -q -S <schema> -X <index> -V <var1> -V <var2>....
.br
Print data from a container
.RS
.TP
.BI -C " <path>"
.br
Path to the container
.TP
.BR -q
Used to query
.TP
.BI -S " <schema>"
.br
Schema querying against
.TP
.BI -X " <index>"
.br
Variable that is indexed to use in the query.
.TP
.BI -V " <var>"
.br
One or more vars to output.
.RE


.SH NOTES
.PP
.IP \[bu]
The configuration lines do not allow specification of the partition, that is done automatically (by default this is the epoch timestamp).
.IP \[bu]
Management of partitions is done outside of LDMS (e.g., cron script that calls creation of new partitions and changes from PRIMARY to ACTIVE).


.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS
Configuring store_sos:
.nf
ldmsd_controller> load name=store_sos
ldmsd_controller> config name=store_sos path=/XXX/storedir
ldmsd_controller> strgp_add name=sos_mem_policy plugin=store_sos container=sos schema=meminfo
.fi
.SS
Querying a container's partitions:
.nf
$ sos_part /NVME/0/SOS_ROOT/Test
 Partition Name       RefCount Status           Size     Modified         Accessed         Path
 -------------------- -------- ---------------- -------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
      00000000               3 ONLINE                 1M 2015/08/25 13:49 2015/08/25 13:51 /SOS_STAGING/Test
      00000001               3 ONLINE                 2M 2015/08/25 11:54 2015/08/25 13:51 /NVME/0/SOS_ROOT/Test
      00000002               3 ONLINE                 2M 2015/08/25 11:39 2015/08/25 13:51 /NVME/0/SOS_ROOT/Test
      00000003               3 ONLINE PRIMARY         2M 2015/08/25 11:39 2015/08/25 13:51 /NVME/0/SOS_ROOT/Test
.fi
.SS
Looking at a container's directory:
Variables that are options for -X in the sos_cmd will have indexed = 1
.nf
$ sos_cmd -C /NVME/0/LDMS -l
schema :
    name      : aries_nic_mmr
    schema_sz : 1944
    obj_sz    : 192
    id        : 129
    -attribute : timestamp
        type          : TIMESTAMP
        idx           : 0
        indexed       : 1
        offset        : 8
    -attribute : comp_time
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 1
        indexed       : 1
        offset        : 16
    -attribute : job_time
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 2
        indexed       : 1
        offset        : 24
    -attribute : component_id
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 3
        indexed       : 0
        offset        : 32
    -attribute : job_id
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 4
        indexed       : 0
        offset        : 40
    -attribute : AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_PKTS
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 5
        indexed       : 0
        offset        : 48
    -attribute : AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_FLITS
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 6
        indexed       : 0
        offset        : 56
    -attribute : AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_STALLED
        type          : UINT64
        idx           : 7
        indexed       : 0
        offset        : 64
  ...
.fi
.SS
Looking at variable values in a container:
.nf
$ sos_cmd -C /NVME/0/LDMS -q -S aries_nic_mmr -X timestamp -V timestamp -V AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_PKTS
timestamp                        AR_NIC_NETMON_ORB_EVENT_CNTR_REQ_PKTS
-------------------------------- ------------------
               1447449560.003480         1642207034
               1447449630.002155         1642213993
               1447449630.003115           88703749
               1447449630.003673           74768272
               1447449640.002818           74768367
               1447449640.003201           88703844
               1447449640.003249         1642214024
               1447449650.002885           74768402
               1447449650.003263         1642214059
               1447449650.003325           88703874
               1447449660.002954           74768511
               1447449660.003308         1642214174
               1447449660.003444           88703993
               1447449670.003015           74768547
               1447449670.003361         1642214205
               1447449670.003601           88704024
               1447449680.003081           74768582
.ni


.SH SEE ALSO
ldms(7), Plugin_store_csv(7), ldmsd_decomposition(7)
