.\" Manpage for Plugin_array_example
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "10 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin array_example man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_array_example - man page for the LDMS array_example plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=array_example [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The array_example plugin demonstrates use of array types in ldms.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The array_example plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname> num_metrics=<num_metrics> num_ele=<num_ele> type=<type>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be array_example.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `array_example`.
.TP
num_metrics=<num_metrics>
.br
The number of metrics in the schema. Defaults to a set, one each for on a variety of types.
.TP
num_ele=<num_ele>
.br
The number of elements in each array. All arrays have the same number of elements. Defaults to 10.
.TP
type=<type>
.br
The type of metric arrays, e.g., U64_ARRAY, U8_ARRAY, etc. Defaults to a set with examples for a variety of types.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=array_example
config name=array_example producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/array_example
start name=array_example interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
