.\" Manpage for LDMS genders entries
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 5 "3 Feb 2019" "v4.3.3" "LDMSD libgenders-based attribute definitions"

.SH NAME
ldms-attributes - attributes for the LDMS libgenders-based boot scripts

.SH DESCRIPTION

This page catalogs the attributes and their interpretations affecting LDMS v3 libgenders-based boot scripts. See ldmsd-genders(8) for an overview of the boot process and the environment variables which may override values in the genders file.

New in LDMS version 3, attributes are provided enabling inclusion or generation of custom ldmsd configuration lines for plugins which are too complicated to configure with libgender attribute syntax. See the CUSTOMIZATION sections below. Also new, LDMS attribute processing extends the substitutions available in attribute values. See "Attribute value substitution" below for how to make ldmsd attribute definitions more concise.

See "Deprecated attributes" (below) to see attributes no longer needed because ldms version 3 is more flexible. The boot scripts attempt to catch any unsupported version 2 attribute usage and make alternative hints.

.SH GENERAL AND AGGREGATION HIERARCHY CONTROL ATTRIBUTES

The following attributes define hierarchical and general local ldmsd behaviors. Details are given in later sections for those attributes controlling data collection and storage behaviors. In a few cases, the attribute prefix ldmsaggd is retained for compatibility with ldms version 2, even though the attribute may apply equally well to daemons that are not aggregating. In these cases, the defaults are usually sufficient for collector-only configurations.

.PP
.nf

Attribute               What it does if defined for a node
--------------          ----------------------------------------
ldmsd                   Enables ldmsd sampling daemon
ldmsd_host=H            Defines host name for the daemon used in data
                        connections.  Typically, this is the name of the
                        node as it appears on a fast local network.
ldmsd_producer=PROD     Defines the producer name reported in ldms data
                        files and user interfaces; typically a short form
                        of host name.
ldmsd_port=P            Defines the port number for the data server.
ldmsd_xprt=X            Defines protocol for data server connections.
                        Typically, one of sock, rdma, ugni.
ldmsd_use_unix_socket=V If the value of V is "yes", a unix socket for
                        daemon control will be opened.
ldmsd_sockpath          Defines the full filename of the unix socket.
                        If not present and unix socket is used, defaults
                        to $localstatedir/ldmsd/usock.$LDMSCLUSTER.
ldmsd_use_inet_socket=V If the value V is "yes", an INET socket for
                        daemon control will be opened.
ldmsd_config_port=R     Defines the port number R of the INET socket. If
                        not present and INET socket is used, defaults to
                        410.
ldmsd_id=EX             Define per-node component_id. EX is an expression per
                        "Attribute value substitution with node name 
                        fragments" below. The result must be decimal.
                        Overrides ldmsd_idbase and ldmsd_idsuffix.
ldmsd_idbase=IDMIN      Defines the least component_id for a node type.
                        For a class of node names differing only in an
                        integer ISUFFIX, component_id is IDMIN+ISUFFIX.
                        component_id of 0 is reserved; ensure IDMIN+ISUFFIX>0.
                        Overrideable with the LDMSD_IDBASE environment
                        variable, which is not recommended except for
                        debugging. Overrideable with ldmsd_id.
ldmsd_idsuffix=EX       Define per-node component_id ISUFFIX. EX is an
                        expression per "Attribute value substitution with
                        node name fragments" below. The result is added to
                        IDMIN. If not defined, the equivalent of %0D is used.
ldmsd_dbg=LEVEL         Defines the daemon binary's logging level, with
                        values as defined in ldmsd(8) and NONE,
                        which routes all logging to /dev/null.
ldmsd_log=DEST          Defines where to send log output. This may be
                        one of syslog, journal, NONE, or a directory
                        name. If a name, the directory will be created
                        and ldmsd.log.$LDMSCLUSTER is the file name.
                        DEST may contain ${} environment variables for
                        expansion.
ldmsd_vg=VGBIN          Defines the full path to an executable wrapper
                        such as valgrind to be used for daemon launch.
                        Note this may be any audit tool, not just valgrind.
                        Interactions with the numactl environment may be
                        nontrivial to manage.
ldmsd_vgargfile=VGOPT   Defines a file containing the command line
                        options to pass to VGBIN (as a single line).
ldmsd_proc=P            Core to pin ldmsd to in many-core hosts. Active
                        only if NUMA-related environment variable is set
                        or a Phi processor is detected.
                        See ldmsd-genders(8).
ldmsaggd=LIST           Enables aggregation, gathering from LIST.
                        LIST is : separated, containing hostnames, or
                        literals BOOTNODELIST, or CLIENTOFLIST or
                        AGGCLIENTOFLIST. See "Node Lists" below.
ldmsd_exclude_host      Defines this host as excluded
                        from aggregation and collection activities,
                        even when the host appears in a list.
ldmsaggd_clientof=H     Defines n-th level aggregation host.
ldmsaggd_event_thds=N   Defines thread count used to manage events.
ldmsaggd_mem_res=M      Defines DMA reservation size.
ldmsd_exclude_schemas=S Defines the list of schemas to exclude
                        from aggregation and storage.

.br
.PP
.fi

.SH   SCHEDULING OF SAMPLING AND TRANSPORT

These control when data is collected and moved. Defaults are applied to any sampler that is not more specifically defined with one of the SUFFIX forms.  Times are in microseconds. If default and offset are not coordinated across the cluster, data loss and network contention may result.

.PP
.nf

Attribute                       What it does if defined for a node
--------------                  ---------------------------------------
ldmsd_interval_default=ISAMP    Defines sampling interval time.
ldmsd_offset_default=OSAMP      Defines offset from the time nearest
                                a whole number multiple of interval.
ldmsd_interval_SUFFIX=IPLUG     As ISAMP, but for sets named by SUFFIX
ldmsd_offset_SUFFIX=OPLUG       As OSAMP, but for sets named by SUFFIX

ldmsaggd_conn_retry=CRI         Defines the retry interval for data
                                connections.
ldmsaggd_interval_default=IAGG  As ISAMP, but for aggregator schedule.
ldmsaggd_offset_default=OAGG    As OSAMP, but for aggregator schedule.

.br
.PP
.fi

.SH  DATA SAMPLER CUSTOMIZATION

These attributes control what exactly is collected by defining key parts of the config command sent to the individual samplers. See "Plugin Config" below for the definition of PARAMLIST, FILE, and PROG.

.PP
.nf
Attribute                       What it does if defined for a node
--------------                  ----------------------------------------
ldmsd_metric_plugins=L          Defines collector plugins to load as a :
                                separated list.  May vary for node types
                                or individual nodes.
ldmsd_SUFFIX=PARAMLIST          Defines SUFFIX plugin config arguments.
ldmsd_config_text_SUFFIX=FILE   Defines SUFFIX plugin config file.
ldmsd_config_gen_SUFFIX=PROG    Defines SUFFIX plugin config file
                                generator.

# For example:
ldmsd_procnetdev=PARAMLIST      Defines config flags of procnetdev.
ldmsd_sysclassib=PARAMLIST      Defines config flags of sysclassib.
ldmsd_meminfo=schema/gw_meminfo Defines meminfo while overriding the schema name.
                                Schema renaming can prevent conflicts at csv stores.
ldmsd_config_text_meminfo=yes   Appends /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf/meminfo
                                to the standard plugin startup line.
ldmsd_config_gen_vmstat=yes     Runs /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf/gen.vmstat
                                and appends the output to the plugin
                                configuration file.

.fi
.br
.PP


.SH STORAGE PLUGIN CUSTOMIZATION
.PP
.nf

These control how storage is done with config commands.
See "Plugin Config" below for the definition of PARAMLIST.

Attribute                       What it does if defined for a node
--------------                  -----------------------------------
ldmsd_store_plugins=L           Defines storage plugins to load as a :
                                separated list.  See 'Plugin config'
                                below.
ldmsd_SUFFIX=PARAMLIST          Defines SUFFIX plugin config arguments.
ldmsd_config_text_SUFFIX=FILE   Defines SUFFIX plugin config file.
ldmsd_config_gen_SUFFIX=PROG    Defines SUFFIX plugin config file
                                generator.
ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX=S          Defines schemas S to route to store
                                SUFFIX. Colon separated list S.
ldmsd_exclude_schemas_SUFFIX=S  Defines schemas S to exclude from
                                store SUFFIX. Colon separated list S.
ldmsd_strgp_custom_STP=PARAMLIST
                                Defines STP storage policy config arguments
                                for a policy not defined in the standard pattern
                                ${SCHEMA}_${PLUGIN} with container=${PLUGIN}.
                                PARAMLIST MUST include 
                                container/$CNAME:schema/$SC:plugin/$PINAME.
                                This provides for control of container names or
                                arbitrary storage policy names as may be needed
                                to store the same metric sets in multiple storage
                                configurations.
ldmsd_strgp_plugconf_STP=PARAMLIST
                                Defines plugin configuration arguments of the
                                plugin used by STP. This allows for overriding
                                ldmsd_SUFFIX default store plugin options.
.\ The strgp_producers commands operate on local producer object names, not
.\ the name of hosts as expected, so these next attributes don't work yet.
.\ldmsd_strgp_producers=S         Defines default producers for storage policies.
.\                                If not defined, the default set is '.*' (all).
.\ldmsd_strgp_producers_STP=S     Defines producers for storage policy STP.
.\                                If not defined, the default set is as for
.\                                ldmsd_strgp_producers.
.\ldmsd_strgp_exclude_producers_STP=S
.\                                Defines producers excluded from storage 
.\                                policy STP.
ldmsd_strgp_metrics_STP=M       Defines metrics to include in storage for STP.
                                If not defined, ALL metrics are stored. M
                                is a : separated list of metric names.
ldmsd_strgp_exclude_metrics_STP=M
                                Defines metrics to exclude in storage for STP.
                                M is a : separated list of metric names.
                                If both metrics and exclude_metrics are defined,
                                the named included metrics are included, less
                                any in the excluded list.
ldmsd_strgp_names=STPLIST       Defines the names of storage policies to start.
                                STPLIST is : separated.
                                The default value of STPLIST if undefined is the
                                combination of the plugins PI listed in 
                                ldmsd_store_plugins iterated over their 
                                respective schemas SC, yielding names in the
                                format ${SC}_${PI}. ldmsd_schemas_${PI} defines
                                the values of SC for that plugin.
                                If STPLIST is defined, it may contain the name
                                'default' to generate the standard combinations,
                                and any additional custom storage policy names.
                                If default is not included, only the policies
                                named with be generated.
                                
For example:
.nf
ldmsd_strgp_names=default:memsmall

ldmsd_store_csv=path//scratch/ldms/csv
ldmsd_strgp_names=default:mem_small
ldmsd_strgp_custom_meminfo_store_csv=container/memfull:schema/meminfo:plugin/store_csv
ldmsd_strgp_plugconf_meminfo_store_csv=rolltype/2:rollover/40

ldmsd_strgp_custom_memsmall=container/memsmall:schema/meminfo:plugin/store_csv
ldmsd_strgp_plugconf_memsmall=altheader/1
ldmsd_strgp_metrics_memsmall=Active:MemAvailable:Dirty
ldmsd_strgp_exclude_metrics_memsmall=MemAvailable

.\ NOT supported yet. need different strgp producers semantics
.\ldmsd_strgp_producers_sysclassib_store_csv=gateway.*:admin.*
.\                                Stores data from hostname prefix 'gateway'
.\                                and from hostname prefix 'admin' nodes.
.\ldmsd_strgp_exclude_producers_meminfo_store_csv=backup.*
.\                                Excludes hosts with prefix 'backup' from
.\                                policy meminfo_store_csv.
ldmsd_strgp_metrics_meminfo_store_csv=Active:MemFree:Dirty:MemTotal:NFS_Unstable
ldmsd_strgp_exclude_metrics_meminfo_store_csv=VmallocTotal
.fi
.br
.PP
.fi

.SH Plugin Config
.PP
A plugin's options may be configured by attribute values, a static text file
snippet, or a generated text for complicated cases. The static, generated, and  attribute-defined configuration cases are explained here. Herein the suffix 'SUFFIX' on attribute names is replaced with a specific plugin name to control that plugin. FILE is normally a full path name.
.PP
A static plugin configuration file for a specific plugin can be used by defining
.B ldmsd_config_text_SUFFIX=FILE.
Only the plugin specific options should appear in the text; standard options are generated. If FILE is 'yes', then /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/SUFFIX is read as a text file.
If FILE is a partial path name, it will be appended to /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ and used. The daemon init script will start the plugin after applying the configuration text.
.PP
A generated configuration file for a specific plugin can be used by defining attribute
.B ldmsd_config_gen_SUFFIX=PROG.
The program PROG will be invoked with arguments and should write the entire configuration and start command set needed to its standard output. If PROG is 'yes', then /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/gen.SUFFIX is expected to be a program.
If PROG is a partial path name, it will be appended to /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ and used as a program. This is the recommended route if multiple instances of the same sampler plugin will be in use. For samplers, the generator program will receive arguments: $plugin-name $producer-name $host $sample_interval $sample_offset. For stores, the generator program will receive arguments: $plugin-name $host [$schemas]*, where there will be 0 or more schema names separated by white space each as a separate argument.

.PP
The normal libgenders attribute-value syntax is:
.BR
key1=value,key2=value2
where values may not contain whitespace, = or comma characters.
.PP
The ldms configuration list syntax is "key=value key=value ..."
where value may contain commas. This syntax is used in static text
file snippets.
.PP
The ldmsd plugin configuration syntax mapped to gender attribute
syntax is:
.BR
ldmsd_$S=$C/value[:$C/value]*
.PP
where:
.nf
$S is the plugin name.
$C is the name of a plugin parameter.
: separates additional parameter assignments.
The first / after the = or a : separates a parameter name
from its value.
The & is used to separate list values rather than commas.
.fi

.PP
This syntax reconciles the libgenders comma/=/whitespace rules with the
LDMS key=comma-separated-value configuration parameter syntax.
Parameters become :-separated keys with &-separated-values lists.
Any / preceding a : except the first is taken as a literal character.

This translation mode is used for  sampler, storage, and transport
plugin configuration attributes where needed.

.SH Storage specific plugin configuration
.PP
To support the most common usage, the names of all active collector plugins found in the genders file are assumed to be valid schema names. LDMSD_SCHEMA_LIST or ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX overrides this assumption. When the genders file omits data about the collector nodes (as may happen on a higher level LDMS aggregator) or the schema names do not match the collector plugin names, use of ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX or LDMSD_SCHEMA_LIST is required.
When multiple schema are generated from the same collector plugin, the ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX attribute or the LDMSD_SCHEMA_LIST environment variable is required. ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX is recommended.
.PP
By default (when no ldmsd_schemas_SUFFIX is defined), all schemas are routed to all loaded storage plugins.

.SH Node Lists
.PP
There are several special values for managing groups of LDMS data sources:
BOOTNODELIST, LDMSDALL, CLIENTOFLIST, and AGGCLIENTOFLIST. Explicitly
naming individual nodes in a node list is rarely desirable.

.PP
The keyword BOOTNODELIST is replaced with the list of nodes with the attribute "bootnode" having a value matching the name of the aggregator host.

.PP
The keyword LDMSDALL is replaced with the list of all nodes with the attribute "ldmsd". Useable in small clusters with a single aggregator.

.PP
If something other than boot nodes is the basis of aggregation, the layout can be specified. E.g., a set of monitoring nodes prefixed mon aggregating subsets of compute nodes:
.nf
   mon[1-4]: ldmsaggd=CLIENTOFLIST
   compute[1-300] ldmsd_clientof=mon1
   compute[301-600] ldmsd_clientof=mon2
   compute[601-900] ldmsd_clientof=mon3
   compute[901-1200] ldmsd_clientof=mon4
.fi
.PP
CLIENTOFLIST is computed as:
.BR
   nodeattr -c ldmsd_clientof=H
.PP
on each mon host H.
.PP

.PP
To run 2nd and higher level aggregators, aggregator hierarchy relationships must be specified. If we need in-platform data for applications seeking
a global performance views, a top level aggregator pulling from other aggregators can be defined with AGGCLIENTOFLIST thus:
.nf
   montop ldmsaggd=AGGCLIENTOFLIST
   mon[1-4] ldmsaggd_clientof=montop
.fi
.PP
AGGCLIENTOFLIST is computed as:
.nf
   nodeattr -c ldmsaggd_clientof=montop
.fi
.PP
on the montop host.

If nodes mon[1-4] are themselves to be monitored by montop, then they must have both ldmsaggd and ldmsd gender values. In this case, both special list variables are used:
.nf
   montop ldmsaggd=AGGCLIENTOFLIST:CLIENTOFLIST
.fi


.SH Attribute value substitution with node name fragments

Libgenders supports replacing "%n" (unqualified node name) in attribute values.
LDMS attribute processing extends this to include extraction and reuse of various node name fragments by position. This enables the collapse of certain voluminous attribute definitions into a single line. The additional substitutions supported are %N[d,D,m,u] which take the Nth fragment of the type indicated by d, D, m, or u from the node name. The fragment types d, D, m, u are, respectively, an integer segment embedded in the node name, an integer segment trimmed of leading zeroes, a segment separated by the '-' character from other segments of the node name, and a segment separated by the '_' character from other segments. Note that the m and u segment types do not exclude digits within. Segments are numbered from 0.

For example the attribute definitions:
.nf
  sc-login[1-8] ldmsd_host=sc-lsm%0d-ib0
  sc-login[1-8] ldmsd_clientof=sc-rps%0d
  sc-gw[1-48] ldmsd_host=i-%1m
.fi
replace the many similar definitions under libgenders substitution rules:
.nf
  sc-login1 ldmsd_host=sc-lsm1-ib0
  sc-login1 ldmsd_clientof=sc-rps1
  sc-gw1 ldmsd_host=i-gw1
  ...
.fi

.SH NOTES

.SH Deprecated attributes

Some attributes supported in ldmsd version 2 are no longer needed in version 3.
If detected, errors will be issued.
.nf
Attribute deprecated    See instead
---------------         -----------------------------
ldmsaggd_port=N         ldmsd_port
ldmsaggd_host=H         ldmsd_host
ldmsaggd_xprt=X         ldmsd_xprt
ldmsaggd_dbg=LEVEL      ldmsd_dbg
ldmsaggd_stores=L       ldmsd_store_plugins
ldmsd_metric_sets=L     ldmsd_metric_plugins
ldmsaggd_store_csv      ldmsd_store_csv
ldmsaggd_conn_thds      ldmsd_event_thds
ldmsaggd_num_procs      ldmsd_event_thds
.fi

.SH Features not yet supported
.PP
These attributes are not yet supported by init scripts:

.nf

ldmsaggd_fail=H                Defines aggregation host to take over if
                               this node fails.
ldmsaggd_interval_SUFFIX=IAGGS As ISAMP, but for aggregating schema
                               SUFFIX.
ldmsaggd_offset_SUFFIX=OAGGS   As OSAMP, but for aggregating schema
                               SUFFIX.

.fi

.SH BUGS
.PP
Some features listed not yet supported, as marked.
.PP
Typos in the ldms attribute names may lead to silent application of defaults.
.PP
Attribute value substitution based on hostname fragments is not yet supported for plugin options.


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See /usr/share/doc/ovis-$version/sample_init_scripts/genders/examples/.

It presents a small cluster, shaun, in ldmsd attributes, with a single aggregator running on shaun-admin and a second level aggregator running on shaun-login as the storage daemon. Subtleties handled in the example include use of Infiniband hostnames and ports.


.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), ldmsd(8), ldmsd-genders(8), ldms-genders-examples(8)

