.\" Manpage for LDMSD managed with genders
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "7 Feb 2017" "v3.5.0" "LDMS genders-based daemon boot information"

.SH NAME
ldmsd-genders - Running ldmsd with genders under systemd or sysvinit boot scripts

.SH SYNOPSIS
For systemd:

.B systemctl
start ldmsd

.B systemctl
stop ldmsd

For sysvinit:

.B service
ldmsd start

.B service
ldmsd stop

.SH DESCRIPTION

This page provides an overview of the ldmsd launch process using libgenders. Use of libgenders allows a succinct, declarative style of configuring ldmsd in complex multi-cluster environments as well as on single machines. See ldms-attributes(5) for information on specific attribute names and their interpretation. For init-script independent environment variables affecting the daemon binary, see ldmsd(8).

The genders options are applied at daemon startup. Ldmsd must be restarted before changes to a genders file will be applied, and dynamic daemon configuration with python is not required.

New in LDMS version 3, genders are provided enabling inclusion or generation of custom ldmsd configuration lines for plugins which are too complicated to configure with gender options. For details on tailoring plugin configuration, see ldms-attributes(5).

When ldmsd is started, the init scripts (systemd or sysvinit) generate a shell environment file and an ldmsd plugins configuration file. The content of these files and behavior of ldmsd is affected by the files under /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/.

It is common for LDMS data storage to be configured outside a cluster on a machine serving several clusters. To support this, options exist for simultaneously running several service instances on the storage service machine using separate gender and configuration files.


.SH Installing and running gender-based init scripts under systemd

For hosts operating under systemd, the service files ldmsd.service and ldmsd@.service are normally installed in /usr/lib/systemd/system (/lib/systemd/system under Debian Linux variants). Installation (unless RPMs are used) is by copying from the subdirectories of /usr/share/doc/ovis-VERSION/sample_init_scripts/genders/systemd into corresponding etc/sysconfig, and lib/systemd/system locations. For testing and local modification, the same files can be copied /etc/systemd/system, which will override those in /usr/lib/systemd. Once copied, 'systemctl daemon-reload' will add the services to the system.

Within a cluster, when the ldmsd service is started with 'systemctl start ldmsd' the service script loads environment variable customizations first from /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.local.conf. It applies the genders file information, then generates the environment and plugin configuration files needed by the ldmsd binary and launches that binary.

On a data storage host handling multiple clusters, a separate ldmsd instance is configured and run for each cluster. The service ldmsd@$LDMSCLUSTER reads its configuration information from /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.$LDMSCLUSTER.conf.

.SH Installing and running gender-based init scripts under sysvinit

For hosts operating under sysvinit, a boot script file ldmsd is normally installed in /etc/init.d.  Installation (unless RPMs are used) is by copying from the appropriate subdirectories of /usr/share/doc/ovis-VERSION/sample_init_scripts/genders/sysv into /etc and /usr/bin.

Within a cluster, when the ldmsd service is started with 'systemctl start ldmsd' the service script loads environment variable customizations first from /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.local.conf. It applies the genders file information, then generates the environment and plugin configuration files needed by the ldmsd binary and launches that binary.

On a data storage host handling multiple clusters, a separate ldmsd instance is configured and run for each cluster. Creating each instance requires generating a tailored init script. See 'Generating sysvinit ldmsd instances' below. The each instance reads its configuration information from /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.$LDMSCLUSTER.conf, just as with the systemd version.


.SH TUNING THE LDMSD RUNTIME BEHAVIOR WITH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

Regardless of the sysvinit or systemd choice, the following variables affect the launch of ldmsd when specified in ldmsd.local.conf (or ldmsd.$LDMSCLUSTER.conf).
They are grouped by role: generally applicable, collection, aggregation, or storage, or experimental.

.SH Tuning variables for ldmsd in any role (collection, aggregation, storage)

.PP
.B LDMSD_PLUGIN_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/file

If defined, this overrides the plugin configuration from gender information completely. The file is staged to /var/run/ldmsd/ at daemon launch.

.B LDMSD_DEBUG_CONFIG_FILE=/path/to/debug/file

If defined pointing to an ldmsd configuration file and LDMSD_PLUGIN_CONFIG_FILE
is not defined, then the content of this file is appended to the generated
configuration file. It is used to send custom ldmsd debugging commands at startup after the generated commands are all sent.

.B LDMSD_DBG=level

If not defined, defaults to 'error' level of logging from the daemon binary.
Valid level names are as given in ldmsd(8).

.B VERBOSE=-v

If VERBOSE is defined as "-v", additional messages will be logged from the init scripts.

.B LDMS_AUTH_FILE=filename

This variable defines the file of the secret network key needed if any aggregation is to take place, assuming authentication is compiled in the ldmsd installation. For production use, authentication should always be used. see ldms_authentication(7). Alternatively, a correct LDMS_SECRETS_DIR defined (as below), will be used to construct the file name automatically.

.B LDMS_SECRETS_DIR=dirname

If set, overrides the default /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterSecrets location of
authentication key files. On multi-instance storage hosts, a secret is expected to be in file $LDMS_SECRETS_DIR/$LDMSCLUSTER.ldmsauth.conf for each cluster instance LDMSCLUSTER being served. Setting LDMS_AUTH_FILE explicitly overrides LDMS_SECRETS_DIR.

.B LDMSD_XPRT=x

This overrides gender ldmsd_xprt, defining the data transport plugin.
If not defined, x is 'sock'. The allowed values of x are 'rdma', 'sock', or 'ugni' (Cray).

.B LDMSD_PORT=N

This overrides gender ldmsd_port, defining the data transport port number.
If neither is defined defined, N defaults to 411.

.B LDMS_LOG_PATH=x

This overrides gender ldmsd_log. If neither the gender nor LDMS_LOG_PATH is defined, journal is used. The allowed values of x are 'NONE', 'syslog', 'journal', and a directory name. If systemd and journal cannot be detected, syslog should be used. If NONE, all log messages will go to /dev/null. In the directory case, the log file will be $LDMS_LOG_PATH/ldmsd.log.$LDMSCLUSTER.

.B LDMS_USE_GENDERS=0

If LDMS_USE_GENDERS is defined as 0, genders information will not be queried at all. Most likely this will result in failure to start unless LDMSD_PLUGIN_CONFIG_FILE is also defined. This feature is still in development.

.B LDMS_GENDERS="file list"

The files listed in LDMS_GENDERS are concatenated and used for genders queries.
In simple installations, LDMS_GENDERS=/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.local or LDMS_GENDERS=/etc/genders is typical.
If unset, /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.$LDMSCLUSTER and /etc/genders are checked and the first found is used as the default. If none of these are present, startup will fail.
.PP
The normal reasons for setting an LDMS_GENDERS list is to support splitting administrative duties. For example, on a storage machine, join a copy if the genders file from a cluster monitored to the genders needed for configuring stores on the specific storage machine. Since more than one storage machine might be serving a cluster or the storage machine may be in a different administrative domain, this splitting of the gender file maintenance duties is often desirable.

.B LDMS_GENDERS_1="file list"
.B LDMS_GENDERS_2="file list"

The files listed in LDMS_GENDERS_1 or LDMS_GENDERS_2 are concatenated and used for genders queries about upstream ldmsd daemons not configured in LDMS_GENDERS.
This allows an aggregator or storage daemon instances to query at startup the possible metric plugins and schemas of collector daemon instances configured in LDMS_GENDERS_1 or LDMS_GENDERS_2. There is no default assumed if these variables are undefined. The files in LDMS_GENDERS_1 are handled as a group separately from LDMS_GENDERS_2 when making queries.

.B LDMS_GENDERS_HOST=name

If defined, this overrides the name of the local host when making gender queries. If undefined, the leading word from the output of `hostname` is used by default. The use of this variable is to allow independent redundant servers to run using the same genders file.

.B LDMSD_USE_UNIX_SOCK=yes

If defined, this overrides gender ldmsd_use_unix_socket. If LDMSD_USE_UNIX_SOCK=yes, a Unix socket will be created for local control of the daemon

.B LDMSD_SOCKPATH=/path/to/sockdir/file

If defined, this overrides gender ldmsd_sockpath. If neither the gender nor the environment variable is defined, the default /var/run/lmdsd/usock.$LDMSCLUSTER is opened when the unix socket is enabled.

.B LDMSD_USE_INET_SOCK=yes

If defined, this overrides gender ldmsd_use_inet_socket. If either the gender or the environment variable is defined as "yes", a network socket will be created for network control of the daemon.

.B LDMSD_CONFIG_PORT=R

If defined, this overrides gender ldmsd_config_port. If neither gender nor environment variable is defined, the default port number 410 is used when inet socket is enabled.

.B LDMSD_EVENT_THDS=N

Overrides with N the ldmsd_event_thds gender value. If neither is specified, the default is 4.



.SH Tuning variables for ldmsd in a collection role

.B COMPONENT_ID=K

If defined, this overrides the component_id derived from the host name. In cluster deployments, this should never be defined as a constant. This value is expected to be a positive (nonzero) integer unique to each host in the ldmsd aggregation hierarchy, if not across the entire site. Specific logic computes a default value of COMPONENT_ID for cray hosts.

.B LDMSD_IDBASE=P

If defined when COMPONENT_ID is not, P is added to the number extracted from the host name and used as the COMPONENT_ID in non-Cray environments. Overrides gender ldmsd_idbase. Alias NODE_ID_BASE is deprecated; when both present LDMSD_IDBASE takes precedence.

.B AGG_ID_BASE=Q

If defined when COMPONENT_ID (or ldmsd_id) is not, Q is added to the number extracted from the host name and used as the COMPONENT_ID in non-Cray environments. This overrides NODE_ID_BASE.

.SH Tuning variables for ldmsd in an aggregation role

.B LDMSAGGD_MEM_RES=size

If defined, this sets the memory size visibly on the daemon command line. Otherwise the default will apply or the LDMSD_MEM_SZ environment variable (if set in the conf file) will be used.

.B LDMSAGGD_CONNECTION_RETRY_INTERVAL=microseconds

Overrides ldmsaggd_conn_retry gender. If not set, defaults to 2000000 (2 seconds).

.B LDMSAGGD_INTERVAL_DEFAULT=microseconds
Overrides ldmsaggd_interval_default gender. If not set, defaults to 10000000 (10 seconds). This value is used if a host-specific ldmsaggd_interval gender is not defined.

.B LDMSAGGD_OFFSET_DEFAULT=microseconds

Overrides ldmsaggd_offset_default gender. If not set, defaults to 200000 (0.2 seconds). This value is used if a host-specific ldmsaggd_offset gender is not defined.

.SH Tuning variables for ldmsd in a storage role

.B LDMSD_SCHEMA_LIST=schema-name-list

Override the list of plugin names computed from ldmsd_metric_plugins and ldmsd_schemas_extra on all aggregated nodes. The LDMSD_SCHEMA_LIST is then used in configuring stores.

.B LDMSD_EXCLUDE_SCHEMA_LIST=schema-name-list

Override the schemas in attribute ldmsd_exclude_schemas, excluding schema-name-list from all store plugins.

.SH Experimental tuning of the ldmsd runtime environment

.B LDMSD_NUMA=yes

If LDMSD_NUMA is defined to any nonempty value, or Xeon Phi hardware is detected in a Cray environment, ldmsd will be pinned using numactl --physcpubind=$CORE to the core defined in the LDMSD_PROC environment variable or by the ldmsd_proc gender.
If neither specifies a core number, 67 is the default.

.PP
Defining the following variables in the configuration file may lead to surprises in the behavior of a hierarchical ldmsd setup. In particular, the environment on one node may be made inconsistent with the environment on other nodes.

.B LDMSD_METRIC_PLUGINS=plugin-name-list

If defined, this overrides the ldmsd_metric_plugins gender. In hierarchical aggregation settings, this may lead to incorrect storage configuration and loss of data unless a corresponding value is set on all other nodes in the hierarchy.

.B LDMSD_STORE_PLUGINS=store-plugin-name-list

If defined, this overrides the ldmsd_store_plugins gender.

.B LDMSD_INTERVAL_DEFAULT=DT

If set, overrides gender ldmsd_interval_default used to control sampling rate.

.B LDMSD_OFFSET_DEFAULT=DT

If set, overrides gender ldmsd_interval_default used to control sampling rate.

.B VGBIN=/usr/bin/valgrind

If set, overrides gender ldmsd_vg defining the wrapper tool location. Must be a full path.
May be any wrapper tool, not just valgrind.

.B VGOPT="argument list"

If set, overrides argument data pointed to in gender ldmsd_vgargfile.
Ignored if VGBIN and gender ldmsd_vg are both undefined.

.PP

.SH FILES
The location of the files mentioned below varies with installation prefix (normally usr) and the value of sysconfdir (normally etc).
.TP
.I /var/run/ldmsd/
Home of the ldmsd runtime scratch files, PID file, et c.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/
Home of the ldmsd configuration processing scripts: ldmsd, ldms-functions.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.local.conf
Environment variables and override settings for monitoring the local host.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.all_instances.conf
Optional environment variables and override settings for multiple hosts.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf
Plugin configuration text fragments, configuration text generation programs, or
entire configuration files are kept. The fragments, files, and generators are used only as directed by genders. See ldms-attributes(5) for details of their use.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.$LDMSCLUSTER.conf
Environment variables and override settings for storage ldmsd serving remote system $LDMSCLUSTER.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/ldmsd.service
Systemd service file for the local ldmsd.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/ldmsd@.service
Systemd service file for all the storage ldmsds serving remote systems.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/ldmsd
The sysvinit boot script for the local host, on systems where systemd is not supported.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/ldmsd.*
The sysvinit boot script for storage ldmsd serving remote system $LDMSCLUSTER.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/ldmsd-pre-systemd
.I /usr/bin/ldmsd-pre-sysvinit
The environment and plugin config file generator driver invoked by the systemd or sysvinit boot script.
The only difference is that for sysvinit the generated script must export the variables.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/ldmsd-wrapper.sh
The wrapper that finally launches the ldmsd binary. Called from the systemd service or sysvinit boot script.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders
Directory where genders file parts needed to compose a final genders file for a remote system are kept.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterSecrets
Directory where LDMS authentication secrets for remote systems are kept.
.br


.SH NOTES
.PP
Typos in the ldms genders keywords may lead to silent application of defaults.
In a new deployment, always review  /var/run/ldmsd/ldmsd.env.local and /var/run/ldmsd/all-config.local to verify your expected options have been applied.
.PP
For storage deployments supporting a remote machine $LDMSCLUSTER, any place .local appears in these man pages, you can usually replace it with .$LDMSCLUSTER and arrive at a correct conclusion.
.PP
For initial deployment debugging under systemd, "journalctl -f -o cat" is very handy.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Some features listed not yet supported, as marked.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See /usr/share/doc/ovis-$version/sample_init_scripts/genders/README

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), ldmsd(8), ldms-attributes(5), ldms_authentication(7)



