.\" Manpage for ldmsd gender configuration examples.
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "15 Aug 2019" "v4.2" "ldmsd man page"

.SH NAME
ldmsd

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldmsd genders-based configuration provides declarative, cluster-oriented
specification of common ldmsd tasks with little or no repetition of information. 
Conventions for configuration file locations are followed, but can be overridden following the documentation in ldmsd-genders(8).

Configuration of storage policies and samplers is covered in ldms-attributes(5).
Data aggregation hierarchies are described by example here. The design of ldmsd does not allow the daemon which samples data to be the daemon which stores the sampled data; to store data, there must be at least  one other daemon instance.

Systemd allows multiple distinct instances of ldmsd to be run simultaneously.
Conventionally, the default local instance (used for operating samplers on its node) is enabled with

	systemctl start ldmsd

after configuring /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.local.conf and /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.local. 

Normally, only the LDMS_AUTH_FILE and LDMS_AUTH_TYPE need to be defined in ldmsd.local.conf; see ldms_auth_ovis(7) for details. The sampler configuration details are defined in genders.local, following the examples in ldms-attributes(5) or Plugin_$SAMPLER man pages.

Conventionally, a first level aggregator is configured as the 'agg' instance of ldmsd. The configuration files are /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.agg.conf and /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.agg. Normally, only LDMS_AUTH_FILE, LDMS_AUTH_TYPE, and LDMS_GENDERS_1 need to be defined. The file named by LDMS_GENDERS_1 is the genders configuration file of the directly upstream daemons. If it is not referenced, much of the information it contains must be duplicated in genders.agg. The aggregator is started with

	systemctl start ldmsd@agg


.PP
The simplest case of ldmsd is a sampler daemon and an aggregator daemon on the same node in a larger cluster. The configuration files could look like:
.SH EXAMPLE 1
.PP
.nf
::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.local.conf :::
LDMS_AUTH_FILE="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterSecrets/ldmsauth.conf"
LDMS_AUTH_TYPE=ovis
::::::::

::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.agg.conf :::
LDMS_AUTH_FILE="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterSecrets/ldmsauth.conf"
LDMS_AUTH_TYPE=ovis
#LDMS_GENDERS="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.agg"
# use of the default means we don't need to define LDMS_GENDERS
# but for aggregators we must list the upstream genders file explicitly.
LDMS_GENDERS_1="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.local"
::::::::

::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.local :::
# This file assumes the answer to `hostname` is in the range 'node[1-10]'
# Globally replace 'node' with your compute node name prefix and tailor
# the node numbering.
# enable ldmsd
node[1-10] ldmsd
# 1 second sampling
node[1-10] ldmsd_interval_default=1000000,ldmsd_offset_default=0
# export data via rdma on port 411 and the ib hostname of node
node[1-10] ldmsd_port=411,ldmsd_xprt=rdma
node[1-10] ldmsd_host=%n-ib0
# metric plugins to use
node[1-10] ldmsd_metric_plugins=jobinfo:meminfo:vmstat:procstat:procnetdev
# The component_id for nodes is computed by adding ldmsd_idbase to the
# integer suffix extracted from the host name. This is not mandatory, but typical. 
node[1-10] ldmsd_idbase=5200000
# procstat plugin settings; tailor to your core count and hyperthreading
node[1-10] ldmsd_procstat=job_set/%n/jobinfo:maxcpu/72:schema/procstat72
# procnetdev plugin settings: list interfaces to monitor by
# separated by & in the ifaces list; tailor to your NIC list.
node[1-10] ldmsd_procnetdev=job_set/%n/jobinfo:ifaces/eno2&ib0
::::::::


::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.agg :::
# agg daemon samplers for Level 2 daemon consumption
node1 ldmsd_metric_plugins=dstat
# dstat plugin settings
node1 ldmsd_dstat=stat/1:statm/1:mmalloc/1:io/1
# agg daemon listener for TCP 
node1 ldmsd_port=412,ldmsd_xprt=sock
# upstream daemon topology to aggregate from
node[1-10] ldmsd_clientof=node1
node1 ldmsaggd=CLIENTOFLIST
# store options
node1 ldmsd_store_plugins=store_csv
# data schemas we want stored via csv
node1 ldmsd_schemas_store_csv=vmstat:procstat72:procnetdev:meminfo:jobinfo
# csv plugin options
node1 ldmsd_store_csv=path//mnt/netapp/ldms/clusterA:altheader/0:rolltype/1:rollover/86400:buffer/0
::::::::

.br
.fi

.SH EXAMPLE 2
A second level of aggregation, typically outside the cluster, is often needed.
Conventionally, this will be configured on another monitoring host and started with

	systemctl start ldmsd@clusterA

for a cluster named 'clusterA'. To avoid repetition, the first level aggregator and sampler genders files are shared with the monitoring host, either by a shared file system or a process which synchronizes the local copies on the monitoring host. For this example, we assume the latter. Any manual overrides in the ldmsd.*.conf files are lost, of course.
.PP
.nf
::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ldmsd.clusterA.conf :::
LDMS_AUTH_FILE="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterSecrets/ldmsauth.conf"
LDMS_AUTH_TYPE=ovis
LDMS_GENDERS="/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.clusterA"
# the next two are identical to the genders file in example 1 with corresponding names.
LDMS_GENDERS_1="/shared/ClusterGenders/clusterA/genders.agg"
LDMS_GENDERS_2="/shared/ClusterGenders/clusterA/genders.local"
# define a variable for port, as there may be clusterB,C,etc.
CLUSTERA_PORT=413
::::::::

::: /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/ClusterGenders/genders.clusterA :::
# Level 2 daemon configuration on host 'monbox'
monbox ldmsd_metric_plugins=dstat
# dstat plugin settings
monbox ldmsd_dstat=stat/1:statm/1:mmalloc/1:io/1
# agg daemon listener for TCP 
monbox ldmsd_port=${CLUSTERA_PORT},ldmsd_xprt=sock
# upstream daemon topology to aggregate from
monbox ldmsaggd=node1
# store options
monbox ldmsd_store_plugins=store_csv
# data schemas we want stored via csv
monbox ldmsd_schemas_store_csv=vmstat:procstat72:procnetdev:meminfo:jobinfo
# csv plugin options
monbox ldmsd_store_csv=path//mnt/netapp/ldms/monbox:altheader/0:rolltype/1:rollover/86400:buffer/0
::::::::
.fi
.PP
Note that the ordering of LDMS_GENDERS_1 and LDMS_GENDERS_2 matters. The sampler-only nodes come last.

.SH BUGS
There is not presently support for LDMS_GENDERS_3.


.SH SEE ALSO
ldms-attributes(5), ldmsd-genders(8), ldms_auth_ovis(7)

