.\" Manpage for ldms_csv_time_drops ldms_csv_time_drops_range
.\" Contact ovis-help@sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "07 Jul 2022" "ldms_csv_time_drops ldms_csv_time_drops_range" "ldms_csv_time_drops man page"
.SH NAME
ldms_csv_time_drops the LDMS CSV data quality check

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms_csv_time_drops <file list>
.br
ldms_csv_time_drops_range <file list>

.SH DESCRIPTION
LDMS CSV store file quality checker. For each input file, the interval, gaps and duplicates in the data are reported.
When multiple files are given, they must be given in chronological order of the data contained.

.SH INTERVAL
The interval is determined per file by examining the rounded time differences of sequential samples on each host
and taking the most common value. 0 length intervals are ignored. If more than one 'most common' interval
is found across the hosts of a single file, the maximum interval seen in any file is reported as 'interval' and the minimum
is reported as 'short_interval'.

.SH GAPS
Gaps in the data are computed using the assumption of a uniform sampling interval
across all hosts on the aggregate timestamp data from all the input files.
A missing file or daemon down-time within the range of the data set will appear a gap.

.SH DUPLICATES
An identical timestamp reappearing on the same host will be reported.
The later time reported for a duplicate is the latest time seen across any host in the
same file preceeding the line location of the duplicate.

.SH INPUT
The LDMS csv store column format is assumed, in particular that the first column is the timestamp and
any row beginning with # is a header to be ignored. Columns 1-4 are assumed to be
.nf

Time,Time_usec,ProducerName,component_id

.fi

.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
Per-file summary:
.nf

lines <count of valid lines>
oldest <timestamp>
newest <timestamp>
interval <seconds>

.fi
If multiple intervals found in a file
.nf

short_interval <seconds>

.fi
.PP
Per gap output for ldms_csv_time_drops_range:
.nf

<host> is missing <intervals> between
    <timestamp.start>
and <timestamp.end>

.fi
Per gap output for ldms_csv_time_drops:
.nf

<host> missing <timestamp.nominal>

.fi
Duplicates are reported as:
.nf

<host> <timestamp> written again at <timestamp>

.fi
.SH BUGS
Sub-second intervals are not supported.


.SH EXAMPLES
For input test.csv containing:
.nf

1.1,100000,host1,1
1.1,100000,host2,2
1.1,100000,host3,3
2.1,100000,host1,1
2.1,100000,host2,2
3.1,100000,host1,1
3.1,100000,host2,2
3.1,100000,host3,3
4.1,100000,host1,1
4.1,100000,host3,3
5.1,100000,host1,1
2.1,100000,host1,1
5.1,100000,host2,2
5.1,100000,host3,3

output of 'ldms_csv_time_drops test.csv'

lines 14
oldest 1.100000
newest 5.100000
interval 1 seconds
host1 2.000001 written again at 5.000001
host2 missing 4
host3 missing 2

output of 'ldms_csv_time_drops_range test.csv'

lines 14
oldest 1.100000
newest 5.100000
interval 1 seconds
host1 2.100000 written again at 5.100000
host2 is missing 1 steps between
    3.100000
and 5.100000
host3 is missing 1 steps between
    1.100000
and 3.100000

.PP
Find the interval of data in a file foo.csv
.nf

ldms_csv_time_drops foo.csv |grep ^interval

.fi

.PP


.SH SEE ALSO
Plugin_store_csv(7)
