.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_ibmad_records_sampler - man page for the LDMS ibmad_records_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=ibmad_records_sampler [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The ibmad_records_sampler plugin provides a single metric set that contains a list of
records. Each record contains all of the metrics for a single infiniband port.

The schema is named "ibmad" by default.

NOTE: This plugin will not currently work with virtual IB devices.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<schema_name>] [job_set=<metric set name>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be ibmad_records_sampler.
.TP
schema=<schema_name>
.br
The schema name defaults to "ibmad", but it can be renamed at the
user's choice.

.TP
rate=0
.br
Stop the default inclusion of rate values in the set.
.TP
job_set=<metric set name>
.br
The name of the metric set that contains the job id information (default=job_id)
.TP
include=PORTLIST
.br
Ignore any devices and ports discovered that are not matched by PORTLIST. See PORTLIST below.
Cannot be combined with the exclude option.
.TP
exclude=PORTLIST
.br
Collect all devices and ports discovered and active that are not matched by PORTLIST. See PORTLIST below.
Cannot be combined with the include option.
.RE

.SH PORTLIST
Providing a port list specification will stop the automated
discovery process at every sample time from requerying devices and ports
that are not of interest, eliminating
nuisance log messages from the MAD libraries. Such messages are frequently seen
on systems using SocketDirect hardware.

The port list is a comma-separated list of CA name and optionally number. E.g.
"mlx4_0.1,mlx4_1". A device name specified without a port number (.N) matches all
ports on that device. The maximum port number supported for a single device is 63.
Including a device or port which does not exist or is not active in the port list
has no effect on the metric sets reported.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH NOTES
The rates reported are computed from the last sample taken and the present sample; however
the last sample may not have been stored downstream and the sample interval size may
vary due to kernel wakeup variations. Rate values are set to -1 for samples where the
rate computation is invalid.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=ibmad_records_sampler
config name=ibmad_records_sampler
start name=ibmad_records_sampler interval=1000000
.fi

.nf
load name=ibmad_records_sampler
config name=ibmad_records_sampler include=hfi1_0.1 rate=0
start name=ibmad_records_sampler interval=1000000
.fi

.nf
load name=ibmad_records_sampler
config name=ibmad_records_sampler exclude=mlx5_0.2,mlx5_0.3,mlx5_0.4,
start name=ibmad_records_sampler interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
