.\" Manpage for Plugin_procstat2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "14 Jan 2022" "v4" "LDMS Plugin procstat2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procstat2 - man page for the LDMS procstat2 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=procstat2 [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms
daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The
procstat2 plugin provides data from /proc/stat.

The procstat2 sampler replaces the deprecated procstat sampler.
The procstat2 plugin is a multi-instance capabable plugin.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The procstat2 plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only
the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this
plugin; see ldms_sampler_base(7) for the attributes of the base class.


.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be procstat2.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes
with different metrics have a different schema. If not specified the schema name
defaults to `procstat2`.
.TP
intr_max=<schema>
.br
(Optional). The maximum number of interrupt numbers supported in intr_list. If
not specified, intr_max will be the current number of interrupts in the intr
list.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=procstat2 inst=ps-1
config name=ps-1 producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/procstat2
start name=ps-1 interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
