.\" Manpage for Plugin_lustre_client
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin lustre_client man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_lustre_client - man page for the LDMS lustre_client plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=lustre_client

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The lustre_client plugin provide a metric set for each of the lustre client
mounts found on a node.  The default schema is named "lustre_client".  The data for the metric sets is
generally found in /proc/fs/lustre/llite/*/stats.

This plugin requires zero configuration, but some options are provided.  The producer name is set to the hostname by default, and the metric set
instance names are derived from the llite instance name.

This plugin should work with at least Lustre versions 2.8 and 2.10.  It will not currently
work with Lustre 2.12 because the llite stats were relocated from /proc to a permission restricted
area under debugfs.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [producer=<pname>] [instance=<set_name>] [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid>] [with_jobid=<bool>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be lustre_client.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.  Default: hostname.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.  This will be ignored, and the individual metric set instances will have dynamically generated instance names.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The name of the schema. It is best to leave it to the plugin to name the schema, but users may override the plugin-choosen schema name if they wish.
.TP
rescan_sec=<rsec>
.br
The interval, in seconds, between rescanning for available lustre client mounts.  Default: 30 seconds.
.TP
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
1 to include jobid with set or 0 if not.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults: zero.
.RE
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=lustre_client
config name=lustre_client
start name=lustre_client interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
