.\" Manpage for Plugin_edac
.\" Contact ovis-help@sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin edac man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_edac - man page for the LDMS edac plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller
.br
config name=edac [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The edac plugin provides memory error information from /sys/devices/system/edac
for correctable and uncorrectable errors.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The edac plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name>  max_mc=<max_mc> max_csrow=<max_csrow> [schema=<schema>]
.br
 configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be edac.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to edac.
.TP
max_mc=<max_mc>
.br
The number of mc's in /sys/devices/system/edac/mc. Typically this number is 2.
.TP
max_csrow=<max_csrow>
.br
The number of csrows in a single mc. For example, the value should be 4 for when the largest csrow looks like: /sys/devices/system/edac/mc/mc0/csrow3. Typically this number is 8, but it can vary depending on the system.
.RE

.SH DATA
This reports counts for both correctable and uncorrectable errors per mc and per csrow. It also reports the seconds since reset per mc.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the shell starting the daemon:
.nf
export max_mc=$(ls /sys/devices/system/edac/mc/mc* -d |wc -l)
export max_csrow=$(ls /sys/devices/system/edac/mc/mc0/csrow* -d |wc -l)

Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=edac
config name=edac producer=vm1_1 component_id=1 instance=vm1_1/edac max_mc=${max_mc} max_csrow=${max_csrow} schema=edac_${max_mc}x${max_csrow}
start name=edac interval=1000000
.fi

.SH NOTES
.PP
An upper limit on metric set size is enforced. Configuring to collect too many registers will generate an error detailing the compiled size limit. This limit is only adjustable in the source code.
The edac information is assumed to be rectangular, that is every mc device has the same number of csrow elements within.
This is known to be untrue on ThunderX2 processors, but the tx2mon plugin is the correct plugin to use instead for tracking memory errors on that architecture.
.PP
For more detailed background information,
see www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/edac.txt and www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/ABI/testing/sysfs-devices-edac.

.SH SEE ALSO
edac(3), edac-util(8), edac-ctl(8), ldms(7), ldms_sampler_base(7)
