.\" Manpage for Plugin_opa2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "5 Feb 2018" "v4.0" "LDMS Plugin opa2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_opa2 - man page for the LDMS opa2 OmniPath network plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
load name=opa2
config name=opa2 [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The opa2 plugin provides local port counters from OmniPath hardware.
A separate data set is created for each port. All sets use the same schema.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> producer=<pname> instance=<instance> [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid>] [ports=<portlist>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be opa2.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The set_name supplied is ignored, and the name $producer/$CA/$port is used.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. Default opa2. The same schema is used for all sets.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.TP
ports=<portlist>
.br
Port list is a comma separated list of ca_name.portnum or a '*'.
The default is '*', which collects a set for every host fabric interface port.
.RE

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=opa2
config name=opa2 producer=compute1 instance=compute1/opa2 component_id=1
start name=opa2 interval=1000000
.fi

.SH NOTES
This sampler will be expanded in the future to capture additional metrics.

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
