.\" Manpage for Plugin_geopm
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "06 May 2022" "v4" "LDMS Plugin geopm man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_geopm - man page for the LDMS geopm plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=ldms_geopm_sampler geopm_request_path=<path-to-file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the
ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a
configuration file. The geopm plugin provides access to the geopm(7)
PlatformIO interface by configuring the request file with signal
requests.


.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The ldms_geopm_sampler plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This
man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with
default values, specific to the this plugin; see
ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.


The GEOPM LDMS sampler can be configured with the same config
parameters as other LDMS samplers (e.g., ``name``, ``producer``,
``component_Id``). In addition to these paramers, the sampler must
be configured with the option - ``geopm_request_path=<path-to-file>``.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> geopm_request_path=<path> [schema=<sname>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be ldms_geopm_sampler.
.TP
geopm_request_path=<path>
.br
This parameter points to the absolute path of the ASCII file
containing the list of signals that the user would like to have
monitored by the sampler.

The format of this file is a three column white space delimited
file.  Each line must contain a GEOPM PlatformIO request of the
form:

.B <SIGNAL_NAME> <DOMAIN> <DOMAIN_INDEX>

The signal name must be a signal supported by GEOPM on the system.
To see a full list of supported signals run the geopmread(1) command
without any options. The domain must match one of the GEOPM domains.
Run the geopmread(1) command with the -d option to see a full list of
supported domains and the number of instances of each on the system.
The domain index provided must be greater or equal to zero and less
than the number of available domains.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on
different nodes with different metrics have a different schema. If not
specified, will default to `ldms_geopm_sampler`.
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES

.B CONFIGURING LDMSD WITH THE SAMPLER

Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=ldms_geopm_sampler
config name=ldms_geopm_sampler producer=${HOSTNAME} geopm_request_path=/etc/ldms/geopm_sampler_request.config
start name=ldms_geopm_sampler interval=1000000
.fi


Here's an example of a file containing the list of signals:

    $> cat geopm_sampler_signal.config
    CPU_FREQUENCY_MAX board 0
    CPU_FREQUENCY_MIN board 0
    CPU_FREQUENCY_STEP board 0
    CPU_FREQUENCY_STICKER board 0
    TIME board 0
    ENERGY_PACKAGE board 0
    INSTRUCTIONS_RETIRED board 0
    POWER_DRAM board 0
    POWER_PACKAGE board 0
    POWER_PACKAGE_LIMIT board 0
    POWER_PACKAGE_MAX board 0
    POWER_PACKAGE_MIN board 0
    POWER_PACKAGE_TDP board 0
    TEMPERATURE_CORE board 0
    TEMPERATURE_PACKAGE board 0
    TIMESTAMP_COUNTER board 0


Note the inclusion of the
.IR geopm_request_path " parameter passed to the " config
instruction. Also, note the name of the sampler
.IR ldms_geopm_sampler
passed to the
.IR name
parameter for the
.IR load
and
.IR start
instructions.


.B RUNNING LDMSD WITH THE SAMPLER

In order to run the GEOPM LDMS sampler, follow the same steps as you would
for any other LDMS sampler.  Start the ``ldmsd`` daemon is running on
the target node to be monitored. Example below:

    ldmsd -x sock:10444 -F -c <path-to-sampler-conf-script> -l ${TEST_PATH}/temp/demo_ldmsd_log


For observing the progress of the sampler, you may choose to add the
option ``-v DEBUG`` above. While the ``ldmsd`` daemon is running, the user
may choose to query for a single instantaneous sample set comprising of
recently monitored signals.  This can be achieved by using the existing
commandline tool - ``ldms_ls`` available as part of the installation of
the LDMS framework. An example is shown below:

     $> ldms_ls -h localhost -x sock -p 10444 -l -v

     Schema         Instance                 Flags  Msize  Dsize  Hsize  UID    GID    Perm       Update            Duration          Info
     -------------- ------------------------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ---------- ----------------- ----------------- --------
     ldms_geopm_sampler <hostname>/ldms_geopm_sampler    CL    1352    240      0   1024    100 -r--r----- 1656431193.051578          0.000323 "updt_hint_us"="1000000:50000"
     -------------- ------------------------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ---------- ----------------- ----------------- --------
     Total Sets: 1, Meta Data (kB): 1.35, Data (kB) 0.24, Memory (kB): 1.59

     =======================================================================

     <hostname>/ldms_geopm_sampler: consistent, last update: Tue Jun 28 08:46:33 2022 -0700 [51578us]
     M u64        component_id                               1
     D u64        job_id                                     0
     D u64        app_id                                     0
     D d64        CPU_FREQUENCY_MAX_board_0                  3700000000.000000
     D d64        CPU_FREQUENCY_MIN_board_0                  1000000000.000000
     D d64        CPU_FREQUENCY_STEP_board_0                 100000000.000000
     D d64        CPU_FREQUENCY_STICKER_board_0              2100000000.000000
     D d64        TIME_board_0                               6.899751
     D d64        ENERGY_PACKAGE_board_0                     334936.207092
     D d64        INSTRUCTIONS_RETIRED_board_0               131016700.000000
     D d64        POWER_DRAM_board_0                         0.900889
     D d64        POWER_PACKAGE_board_0                      25.469352
     D d64        POWER_PACKAGE_LIMIT_board_0                140.000000
     D d64        POWER_PACKAGE_MAX_board_0                  594.000000
     D d64        POWER_PACKAGE_MIN_board_0                  140.000000
     D d64        POWER_PACKAGE_TDP_board_0                  280.000000
     D d64        TEMPERATURE_CORE_board_0                   26.454545
     D d64        TEMPERATURE_PACKAGE_board_0                28.000000
     D d64        TIMESTAMP_COUNTER_board_0                  10913748924506.000000






.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8),
ldms_sampler_base(7), geopm(7), geopm_pio(7), geopmread(1),
geopmwrite(1)
