.\" Manpage for netlink-notifier ldms-netlink-notifier
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "25 June 2021" "v4.3" "netlink-notifier man page"

.SH NAME
ldms-netlink-notifier  \- Transmit Linux kernel netlink process life messages to ldmsd streams.

ldms-notify            \- systemd service


.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms-netlink-notifier [OPTION...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The netlink-notifier generates JSON message for ldmsd and JSON aware LDMS samplers.
Its messages are mostly compatible with those from the slurm spank based notifier.

.SH OPTIONS
.nf
-c	use task comm field for process name.
-d	strip off directory path from process name.
-D	specify run duration in seconds. If unspecified, run forever.
-e	select which events to monitor.
-E	equivalent to -e all.
-g	show glyphs for event types in debug mode.
-h	show this help.
-i seconds	 time (float) to sleep between checks for processes exceeding the short dir filter time.
		 If the -i value > the -m value, -i may effectively filter out additional processes.
-j file	 file to log json messages and transmission status.
-l	force stdout line buffering.
-L file	log to file instead of stdout.
-r	run with real time FIFO scheduler (available on some kernels).
-s	show short process name in debugging.
-S	suppress stream message publication.
-t	show debugging trace messages.
-u umin	ignore processes with uid < umin
-v lvl  log level for stream library messages. Higher is quieter. Error messages are >= 3.
-q	run quietly
-x	show extra process information.
-X	equivalent to -Egrx.
The ldmsd connection and commonly uninteresting or short-lived processes may be specified with the options or environment variables below.
The 'short' options do not override the exclude entirely options.
--exclude-programs[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-programs
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default (nullexe):<unknown> is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_PROGRAMS is set.
--exclude-dir-path[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-dir-path
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default /sbin is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_DIR_PATH is set.
--exclude-short-path[=]<path>	 change the default value of exclude-short-path
	 When repeated, all values are concatenated.
	 If given with no value, the default /bin:/usr is removed.
	 If not given, the default is used unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_PATH is set.
--exclude-short-time[=][val]	 change the default value of exclude-short-time.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 If given with no value, the default 1 becomes 0 unless
	 the environment variable NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_TIME is set.
--stream[=]<val>	 change the default value of stream.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default slurm is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_STREAM is not set.
--xprt[=]<val>	 change the default value of xprt.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default sock is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_XPRT is not set.
--host[=]<val>	 change the default value of host.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default localhost is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_HOST is not set.
--port[=]<val>	 change the default value of port.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 411 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_PORT is not set.
--auth[=]<val>	 change the default value of auth.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default munge is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_AUTH is not set.
--reconnect[=]<val>	 change the default value of reconnect.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 600 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_RECONNECT is not set.
--timeout[=]<val>	 change the default value of timeout.
	 If repeated, the last value given wins.
	 The default 1 is used if env NOTIFIER_LDMS_TIMEOUT is not set.
--track-dir[=]<path>     change the pids published directory.
	 The default is used if env NOTIFIER_TRACK_DIR is not set.
	 The path given should be on a RAM-based file system for efficiency,
	 and it should not contain any files except those created by
	 this daemon. When enabled, track-dir will be populated even if
	 -S is used to suppress the stream output.
--component_id=<U64>     set the value of component_id.
	 If not set, the component_id field is not included in the stream formats produced.
--ProducerName=<name>    set the value of ProducerName
	 If not set, the ProducerName field is not included in the stream formats produced.
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following variables override defaults if a command line option is not present, as describe in the options section.
.nf
NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_PROGRAMS="(nullexe):<unknown>"
NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_DIRS=/sbin
NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_PATH=/bin:/usr
NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_SHORT_TIME=1
NOTIFIER_TRACK_DIR=/var/run/ldms-netlink-tracked
NOTIFIER_LDMS_RECONNECT=600
NOTIFIER_LDMS_TIMEOUT=1
NOTIFIER_LDMS_STREAM=slurm
NOTIFIER_LDMS_XPRT=sock
NOTIFIER_LDMS_HOST=localhost
NOTIFIER_LDMS_PORT=411
NOTIFIER_LDMS_AUTH=munge
.fi
Omitting (nullexe):<unknown> from NOTIFIER_EXCLUDE_PROGRAMS may cause incomplete output
related to processes no longer present. In exotic circumstances, this may be desirable anyway.

.SH FILES

Users or other processes may discover which processes are the subject of notifications
by examining the files in

/NOTIFIER_TRACK_DIR/*

For each pid started event which would be emitted to an LDMS stream, a temporary
file with the name of the pid is created in NOTIFIER_TRACK_DIR. The file
will contain the json event attempted. The temporary file will
be removed when the corresponding pid stopped event is sent.
These files are not removed when the notifier daemon exits.
Client applications may validate a file by checking the contents
against the /proc/$pid/stat content, if it exists.
Invalid files should be removed by clients or system scripts.


.SH NOTES
.PP
The core of this utility is derived from forkstat(8).
.PP
The output of this utility, if used to drive a sampler, usually needs to be consumed on the same node.
.PP
If not used with a sampler, the --component_id or --ProducerName options are needed
to add a node identifier to the messages. Normally a process-following sampler that creates sets
will add the node identifier automatically.
.PP
Options are still in development. Several options affect only the trace output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run for 30 seconds with screen and json.log test output connecting to the ldmsd from 'ldms-static-test.sh blobwriter' test:
.nf
netlink-notifier -t -D 30 -g -u 1 -x  -e exec,clone,exit  \\
	-j json.log --exclude-dir-path=/bin:/sbin:/usr \\
	--port=61061 --auth=none --reconnect=1"
.fi
.PP
Run in a typical deployment (sock, munge, port 411, localhost, forever, 10 minute reconnect):
.nf
netlink-notifier
.fi
.PP
Run in a systemd .service wrapper, excluding root owned processes.
.nf
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/ldms-netlink-notifier.conf
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/ldms-netlink-notifier -u 1 -x -e exec,clone,exit
.fi
.PP
Run in a systemd .service wrapper, excluding root owned processes, with debugging files
.nf
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/ldms-netlink-notifier.conf
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/ldms-netlink-notifier -u 1 -x -e exec,clone,exit -j /home/user/nl.json -L /home/user/nl.log -t --ProducerName=%H
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
forkstat(8), ldmsd(8), ldms-static-test(8)
