.\" Manpage for Plugin_papi
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "09 May 2016" "v3" "LDMS Plugin papi man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_papi - man page for the LDMS papi sampler plugin.

.SH SYNOPSIS

Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=spapi [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsctl. The papi sampler plugin runs on the nodes and provides data about the the occurrence of micro-architectural events using papi library by accessing hardware performance counters.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

You will need to build LDMS with --enable-papi. Papi library should be available through plugin library path.

.SH LDMSCTL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config

name=<plugin_name> events=<comma separated list of events> pid=<process id> producer=<producer_name> instance=<instance_name> [schema=<sname>] [component_id=<compid> with_jobid=<bool>]
ldmsctl configuration line
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be spapi.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a different schema.
.TP
component_id=<compid>
.br
Optional component identifier. Defaults to zero.
.TP
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
Option to collect job id with set or 0 if not.
.TP
events=<comma separated list of events>
.br
Comma separated list of events. Available events can be determined using papi_avail command if papi is installed on system.
.TP
pid    - The PID for the process being monitored
.br

.RE

.SH NOTES
.PP
In order to check if an event is available on the system you can run papi_avail.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
The following is a short example that measures 4 events.
.br
Total CPU cycles
.br
Total CPU instructions
.br
Total branch instructions
.br
Mispredicted branch instructions

.PP



$ldmsctl -S $LDMSD_SOCKPATH


ldmsctl> load name=spapi
.br
ldmsctl> config name=spapi producer=$PRODUCER_NAME instance=$INSTANCE_NAME pid=$PID events=PAPI_TOT_INS,PAPI_TOT_CYC,PAPI_BR_INS,PAPI_BR_MSP
.br
ldmsctl> start name=spapi interval=$INTERVAL_VALUE
.br
ldmsctl> quit





.SH SEE ALSO

 papi_avail(1) , ldmsd(7), ldms_quickstart(7)
