.\" Manpage for papi_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "LDMSD Plugin papi_sampler man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_papi_sampler - man page for the LDMSD papi_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.SY config
.BR name=papi_sampler
.BI producer= PRODUCER
.BI instance= INSTANCE
.OP \fBcomponent_id=\fICOMP_ID
.OP \fBstream=\fISTREAM
.OP \fBjob_expiry=\fIEXPIRY_SEC
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpapi_sampler\fR monitors PAPI events of processes of Slurm jobs.

The job script must define \fBSUBSCRIBER_DATA\fR environment variable as a JSON
object that has at least \fB"papi_sampler"\fR attribute as follows:

.RS
.EX
SUBSCRIBER_DATA='{"papi_sampler":{"file":"/PATH/TO/PAPI.JSON"}}'
.EE
.RE

where the \fB"file"\fR attribute inside \fB"papi_sampler"\fR points to a
JSON-formatted text file containing user-defined schema name and PAPI events of
interest, e.g.

.RS
.EX
{
  "schema": "my_papi",
  "events": [
    "PAPI_TOT_INS",
    "PAPI_L1_DCM"
  ]
}
.EE
.RE

\fBpapi_sampler\fR relies on \fBslurm_notfifier\fR SPANK plugin to notify it
about the starting/stopping of jobs on the node over ldmsd_stream. Please
consult \fBPlugin_slurm_notifier(7)\fR for more information on how to deploy and
configure it. The value of SUBSCRIBER_DATA from the job script is carried over
to \fBpapi_sampler\fR when the job started, and an LDMS set will be created
according to the PAPI JSON file pointed by the SUBSCRIBER_DATA. In the case of
multi-tenant (multiple jobs running on a node), each job has its own set. The
set is deleted after \fIjob_expiry\fR period after the job exited.


.SH CONFIG OPTIONS
.TP
.BR name=papi_sampler
This MUST be papi_sampler (the name of the plugin).
.TP
.BI producer= PRODUCER
The name of the data producer (e.g. hostname).
.TP
.BI instance= INSTANCE
This is mandatory due to the fact that \fBpapi_sampler\fR extends
\fBsampler_base\fR and this option is required by \fBsampler_base\fR config.
However, the value is ignored and can be anything. The actual name of the
\fBpapi_sampler\fR instance is
.IR PRODUCER / SCHEMA / JOB_ID .
.TP
.BI component_id= COMPONENT_ID
An integer identifying the component (default: \fI0\fR).
.TP
.BI stream= STREAM
The name of the stream that \fBslurm_notifier\fR SPANK plugin uses to notify the
job events. This attribute is optional with the default being \fIslurm\fR.
.TP
.BI job_expiry= EXPIRY_SEC
The number of seconds to retain the set after the job has exited. The default
value is \fI60\fR.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
Plugin configuration example:

.RS
.EX
load name=papi_sampler
config name=papi_sampler producer=node0 instance=NA component_id=2 job_expiry=10
start name=papi_sampler interval=1000000 offset=0
.EE
.RE

Job script example:

.RS
.EX
#!/bin/bash
export SUBSCRIBER_DATA='{"papi_sampler":{"file":"/tmp/papi.json"}}'
srun bash -c 'for X in {1..60}; do echo $X; sleep 1; done'
.EE
.RE

PAPI JSON example:

.RS
.EX
{
  "schema": "my_papi",
  "events": [
    "PAPI_TOT_INS",
    "PAPI_L1_DCM"
  ]
}
.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR Plugin_slurm_notifier (7),
.BR Plugin_syspapi_sampler (7),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
.BR ldmsd_controller (8),
.BR ldms_sampler_base (7).
