.\" Manpage for Plugin_procnetdev2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "07 Jan 2022" "v4" "LDMS Plugin procnetdev2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procnetdev2 - man page for the LDMS procnetdev2 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B load
.RI name= INST_NAME
.RB plugin= procnetdev2
.br
.B config
.RI name= INST_NAME
.RI [ <attr> = <value> ]
.RI [ifaces= CSV_STR ]
.RI [excludes= CSV_STR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms
daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The
procnetdev2 plugin uses LDMS_V_LIST and LDMS_V_RECORD to provide network info
from /proc/net/dev.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The procnetdev2 plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers
only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to
this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
.RI name= INST_NAME
.RI [ifaces= CSV_STR ]
.RI [excludes= CSV_STR ]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
.RI name= INST_NAME
.br
The name given at \fBload\fR command.
.TP
.RI [ifaces= CSV_STR ]
.br
(Optional) A comma-separated list of interface names (e.g. eth0,eth1) to be
collected. If NOT specified, all interfaces are included (unluss the `excludes`
option exclude them).
.TP
.RI [excludes= CSV_STR ]
.br
(Optional) A comma-separated list of interface names (e.g. lo,eth0) to be
excluded from the collection.
.RE


If \fBifaces\fR and \fBexcludes\fR are NOT specified, the sampler collects data
from all interfaces. If only \fBifaces\fR is specified, the sampler only
collects data from interfaces in the ifaces list. If only \fBexcludes\fR is
specified, the sampler collects data from all interfaces EXCEPT those in the
\fBexcludes\fR option. If both \fBifaces\fR and \fBexcludes\fR are specified,
the sampler collects data from all interfaces that are in \fBifaces\fR option
but are NOT in the \fBexcludes\fR option.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf

    load name=samp plugin=procnetdev
    config name=samp producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/procnetdev2 ifaces=eth0,eth1
    start name=samp interval=1000000 offset=0

    load name=samp2 plugin=procnetdev
    config name=samp2 producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/nolo excludes=lo
    start name=samp2 interval=1000000 offset=0

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7),
Plugin_procnetdev(7)
