.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_lustre_mdt - man page for the LDMS lustre_mdt plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=lustre_mdt

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file.

The lustre_mdt plugin provides metric sets for two different schemas: lustre_mdt and lustre_mdt_job_stats.

The metric sets using schema lustre_mdt will have a producer name set to the hostname,
and the instance name set to the mdt name.  The data for these metrics sets come from a combination
of the data in /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/stats and a few other single-value files in /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/.

The metric sets using schema lustre_mdt_job_stats will have a producer name set to the hostname,  and the
instance name will be set to a combination of the mdt name and the job_id string.  The data for these metrics sets
come from /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/job_stats.

This plugin currently employs zero configuration. Any user-supplied configuration values will be ignored.  Future versions may add
configuration options.

This plugin should work with at least Lustre versions 2.8, 2.10, and 2.12.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [producer=<name>] [component_id=<u64>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be lustre_mdt.
.TP
producer=<alternate host name>
.br
The default used for producer (if not provided) is the result of gethostname().
The set instance names will be $producer/$mdt_name.
.TP
component_id=<uint64_t>
.br
Optional (defaults to 0) number of the host where the sampler is running. All sets on a host will have the same value.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=lustre_mdt
config name=lustre_mdt
start name=lustre_mdt interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
