.\" Manpage for Plugin_tutorial_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "24 Oct 2019" "v4" "LDMS Plugin tutorial_sampler man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_tutorial_sampler - man page for the LDMS tutorial_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=tutorial_sampler [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The tutorial_sampler plugin is a demo sampler described in the LDMSCON2019 tutorial "LDMS v4: Sampler and Store Writing".

This sampler is a simplified version of test_sampler, with a fixed number of sets and u64 data types only. Max sets is determined by MAXSETS in the source.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The tutorial_sampler plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.



.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>] [num_metrics=<num_metrics>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be tutorial_sampler.
.TP
num_metrics=<num_metrics>
.br
Optional number of metrics for this set. Metrics will be U64. Metric names will be 'metric_%d'. If not specified, default number of metrics is determined by DEFAULTNUMMETRICS in the source.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that any sets with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, will default to `tutorial_sampler`. Therefore, if you are creating multiple sets in this sampler, you will most likely want to define schema for each set.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
config name=tutorial_sampler producer=localhost1 instance=localhost1/test1 schema=test1 component_id=1
config name=tutorial_sampler producer=localhost1 instance=localhost1/test2 schema=test2 component_id=2 num_metrics=5                                                          
config name=tutorial_sampler producer=localhost1 instance=localhost1/test3 schema=test3 component_id=1 num_metrics=2                                                          
job_set=localhost1/jobid                                                                                                                                                     
start name=tutorial_sampler interval=1000000                     
.fi

.PP Output
> ldms_ls
localhost1/test1: consistent, last update: Thu Oct 24 10:55:14 2019 -0600 [223680us] 
 M u64        component_id                               1
 D u64        job_id                                     0
 D u64        app_id                                     0
 D u64        metric0                                    2
 D u64        metric1                                    4
 D u64        metric2                                    6
 D u64        metric3                                    8
 D u64        metric4                                    10
 D u64        metric5                                    12
 D u64        metric6                                    14
 D u64        metric7                                    16
 D u64        metric8                                    18
 D u64        metric9                                    20
 
 localhost1/test2: consistent, last update: Thu Oct 24 10:55:14 2019 -0600 [223699us] 
 M u64        component_id                               2
 D u64        job_id                                     0
 D u64        app_id                                     0
 D u64        metric0                                    4
 D u64        metric1                                    8
 D u64        metric2                                    12
 D u64        metric3                                    16
 D u64        metric4                                    20
 
 localhost1/test3: consistent, last update: Thu Oct 24 10:55:14 2019 -0600 [223717us] 
 M u64        component_id                               1
 D u64        job_id                                     0
 D u64        app_id                                     0
 D u64        metric0                                    6
 D u64        metric1                                    12


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), test_sampler(7), Plugin_store_tutorial(7)
