.\" Manpage for ldms-sensors-config
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "15 Dec 2018" "v4" "LDMS ldms-sensors-config man page"

.SH NAME
ldms-sensors-config - generate LDMS filesingle plugin configuration prototype

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms-sensors-config [--sensors=/path/to/sensors] [--lscpu=/path/to/lscpu] [--test-lscpu=lscpu-log-file] [--test-sensors=sensors-log-file]

Run 'sensors' under strace to discover where some sensor files
live on the current system and generate a draft metric configuration
file for the LDMS filesingle sampler.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldms-sensors-config program generates a draft conf file for the filesingle
sampler. The user should tailor the selection, naming, data storage type, and default values per Plugin_filesingle(7).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
--sensors=<path>
.br
specify an alternate location of the sensors program. The default is /usr/bin/sensors, and the PATH variable is not used to search for alternatives.

.TP
--nodash
.br
Replace all - characters in metric names with _ characters.

.TP
--lscpu=<path>
.br
specify an alternate location of the lscpu program. The default is /usr/bin/lscpu and the PATH variable is not used to search for alternatives.

.TP
--test-lscpu=<path>
.br
Specify the location of a pre-collected strace log of lscpu to use instead of lscpu run on the local system. Used for testing or remote configuration. 

.TP
--test-sensors=<path>
.br
Specify the location of a pre-collected strace log of sensors to use instead of sensors run on the local system. Used for testing or remote configuration.

.SH EXAMPLES

The log file for sensors can be collected with:

script -c 'strace -e trace=open,openat,read sensors -u' sensors.log

The log file for lscpu can be collected with:

script -c 'strace -e trace=open,openat lscpu' /tmp/lscpu.tmp | grep '^open.*cpuinfo_max_freq' > lscpu.log; rm /tmp/lscpu.tmp

.SH NOTES

When using test input file(s), the live system data will be used if the corresponding test file is not specified.

Systems (kernels) lacking cpu frequency reporting produce no output from lscpu.

The use of --nodash is recommended for compatibility with downstream analysis tools. White space
appearing in metric names is unconditionally transformed to _.

.SH SEE ALSO
sensors(1), lscpu(1), Plugin_filesingle(7), ldmsd.
