.\" Manpage for Plugin_filesingle
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "15 Dec 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin filesingle man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_filesingle - man page for the LDMS filesingle plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.br
config name=filesingle conf=<metric_definitions> [timing]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The filesingle plugin provides metrics pulled from files containing a
single numeric value or character.  This supports flexible definition
of, among others, sensor hardware, file system, and cpu metrics.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

See ldms_sampler_base(7) for the common sampler options.
.TP
.BR config
conf=<metric_definitions> [timing]
.br

.RS
.TP
conf=<file>
.br
File lines contain the source, type, and default value for each metric.
See CONF FILE SYNTAX below.
.TP
timing
.br
If keyword 'timing' is included in the options, extra metrics measuring
the time to collect every defined metric will be included. This allows
for the discovery of slow sensors. Each timing metric will have the name
of the timed metric with ".time" appended. Do not use "timing="; it is ignored.
.RE

.SH COLLECTION
Each metric is collected from a separate file. If this process fails for
any reason at all, the default value is collected instead. The timing
metrics (type S64) report the number of microseconds measured bracketing
the open/read/close cycle of the metric's value file. The timing of a
failed collection is -1. Each file is open, read, and closed for each data
sample collected.

.SH CONF FILE SYNTAX
Each line of the conf file must be empty, contain a comment or contain:

<metric_name> <source_file> <metric_type> <default_value>

The metric and file names must not contain spaces. The metric type is one of:
S8, S16, S32, S64, U8, U16, U32, U64, F32, D64, CHAR.

Lines starting with # are comment lines. Line continuations are not allowed.

The script ./ldms-sensors-config(1) generates an example metrics config
file from the data reported by sensors(1). Metric names, types, and defaults
generated can be tuned to user preferences.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=filesingle
config name=filesingle conf=/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf/filesingle.conf
start name=filesingle interval=10000000 offset=0
.fi

For the contents of filesingle.conf (on a specific machine):

.nf
power1 /sys/class/hwmon/hwmon0/device/power1_average S64 -1
coretemp.Physical_id_0 /sys/class/hwmon/hwmon1/temp1_input S64 -1
coretemp.Core_0 /sys/class/hwmon/hwmon1/temp2_input S64 -1
core0.cur_freq /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_cur_freq S64 -1
.fi

The power reading, two temperatures, and cpu frequency are collected.


.SH NOTES

The values collected are the raw values from the sources; converting to
humane units is left to data post-processors. In the specific example given,
the raw power reading has units of microwatts, the temperatures have units
of millidegrees Celsius, and the cpu frequency is reported in milliHertz.
To determine the appropriate unit conversions for your system, compare the
output of sensors(1) or lscpu(1) to the value found in the raw data files.

To determine the file locations of metrics on your system consult the documentation
for the device drivers of interest or the output of ldms-sensors-config(1) or

"strace -e trace=open <querytool>"

Some metric files may only be readable by the users with administrative privileges. Some of these may be available without privilege by extracting them from larger files in /proc, e.g. "cpu MHz" in /proc/cpuinfo.

Some sensors may not update themselves (at the kernel level) faster than a certain frequency, even though it is possible to more frequently read their data files.

.SH SEE ALSO
ldms-sensors-config(1), sensors(1), lscpu(1), ldms_sampler_base(7), proc(5), ldmsd(8), ldmsd_controller(8)
