.\" Manpage for ldms_ibnet_schema_name
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "4 June 2020" "v4.4" "LDMS utility ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen man page"

.SH NAME
ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen - man page for the LDMS ibnet plugin support utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen --net <netfile> --samplers <hostfile> --out <output prefix> [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen script produces files splitting the ports in the netfile
among the hosts listed in the samplers file. The input is expected to be the network
dump of an approximately three-level FAT tree.

.SH OPTIONS

.nf
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --out OUTPREFIX       prefix of output files
  --net IBNDPFILE       file name of output collected from 'ibnetdiscover -p'
  --samplers HOSTFILE   file listing samplers as named in the node name map, one per line.
  --lidnames            dump lid,name map to stdout and exit.
  --annotate            annotate out sampler assignment files with node-name-map strings.
  --tier0               generate tier0-1 graphs
  --tier1               generate tier1-2 graphs
  --tier2               generate tier2-3 graphs
  --circo-tiers CIRCO_PREFIX
                        dump circo tier plots to files starting with prefix
                        given CIRCO_PREFIX.
  --sfdp-tiers SFDP_PREFIX
                        dump circo tier plots to files starting with prefix
                        given SFDP_PREFIX.
  --info                print key intermediate results
  --debug               print miscellaneous debug messages
  --dump_sw             print switches parsed
  --dump_ca             print HCA list parsed
  --dump_links          print links parsed
  --dump_tiers          print tiers discovered
  --dump_parse          print parser debugging
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
cat <<EOF >cluster-samplers
admin1 qib0
admin2 qib0
admin3 qib0
EOF

ibnetdiscover -p > cluster-p-netdiscover

ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen --lidnames --net cluster-p-netdiscover --samplers x --out x |
    sort -k2 -t, > lid.host.txt

ldms-ibnet-sampler-gen \
--net cluster-p-netdiscover \
--samplers clustre-samplers \
--annotate \
--out sbx 

.fi
.SH NOTES
Port 37, if present, is assumed to be a Mellanox SHARP port. Connections on port 37 are ignored for topology decomposition and sampler load balancing purposes.

This program does not directly invoke infiniband. It does invoke (and require) graphviz utilities if the tier, circo, or sfdp options are applied.

Applying the --node-name-map option to ibnetdiscover when generating the net file makes the results more readable.

.SH SEE ALSO
Plugin_ibnet(7), circo, dot
