.\" Manpage for Plugin_dstat
.\" Contact ovis-help@sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "4 Nov 2020" "v4.3" "LDMS Plugin dstat man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_dstat - man page for the LDMS dstat plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller
.br
config name=dstat [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The dstat plugin provides ldmsd process information from /proc/self/[io,stat,statm,fd].

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> component_id=<comp_id> [io=<bool>] [stat=<bool>] [statm=<bool>] [mmalloc=<bool>] [fd=<bool>] [fdtypes=<bool>] set=<set_name> 
.br
 configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be dstat.
.TP
producer=<pname>
.br
The producer string value.
.TP
instance=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is required by most storage backends that the same sampler on different nodes with different metric subsets needs to have a unique schema name. Use auto-schema=1 instead of schema to automatically meet the backend requirement.
.TP
auto-schema=<bool>
.br
If true, change the schema name to dstat_$X, where $X will be
a unique hex value derived from the data selection options. If both schema and auto-schema are given, for backward-compatibility auto-schema is ignored for the dstat plugin.
.TP
component_id=<comp_id>
.br
The component id numerical value.
.TP
io=<bool>
.br
Include the metrics from /proc/self/io.
.TP
stat=<bool>
.br
Include the metrics from /proc/self/stat.
.TP
tick=<bool>
.br
Include the sc_clk_tck from sysconf(3) as a metric.
.TP
statm=<bool>
.br
Include the metrics from /proc/self/statm.
.TP
mmalloc=<bool>
.br
Include the mmap memory usage metric from LDMS mmalloc.
.TP
fd=<bool>
.br
Include the number of open file descriptors found in /proc/self/fd.
.TP
fdtypes=<bool>
.br
Include the number and types of open file descriptors found in /proc/self/fd.
This option may have high overhead on aggregators with many open connections.
.RE

.SH DATA
This reports metrics from /proc/self/[io,stat,statm] by default. If specific subsets are named (io=true), then unnamed sets are suppressed. 
Units on the /proc metric values are documented in the man pages. The unit of the mmalloc metric is bytes.

.SH EXAMPLES 
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=dstat
config name=dstat producer=vm1_1 component_id=1 instance=vm1_1/dstat
start name=dstat interval=1000000
.fi

.SH NOTES
.PP
See proc(5) for the definitions of all the metrics except sc_clk_tck and fd data. Metrics which are invariant (other than pids and sc_clk_tck) are not included. Where naming is potentially ambiguous and a more specific name is used in /proc/self/status for the same metrics, the name from /proc/self/status is used.
.PP
Requesting mmalloc or fd or fdtypes (any of which may be high overhead) requires explicitly requesting it and all others which are wanted. 
.PP
The numbers listed in /proc/self/fd/ are symbolic links.
The "types" of reported are based on the names pointed to by the links as follows:
.nf
fd_count        total number of open file descriptors.
fd_max          highest file number.
fd_socket       count of link targets starting with "socket:"
fd_dev          count of link targets starting with "/dev:"
fd_anon_inode   count of link targets starting with "anon_inode:"
fd_pipe         count of link targets starting with "pipe:"
fd_path         count of link targets starting with . or / but not /dev.
.fi
.PP
On most HPC Linux systems sc_clk_tck is 100 Hz. Less common values are 250, 300, and 1000.

.PP
This is the LDMSD answer to the ancient question "Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?"

.SH SEE ALSO
proc(5), ldmsd(8), sysconf(3)
