.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_lustre_client - man page for the LDMS lustre_client plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=lustre_client [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The lustre_client plugin provide a metric set for each of the lustre client
mounts found on a node.  The schema is named "lustre_client".  The data for the metric sets is
generally found in /proc/fs/lustre/llite/*/stats.

This plugin currently employs zero configuration.  The producer name is set to the hostname
by default, and the metric set instance names are
derived from the llite instance name. Any user-supplied configuration values not
documented here will be ignored.

This plugin should work with at least Lustre versions 2.8, 2.10, and 2.12.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [job_set=<metric set name>] [producer=<name>] [component_id=<u64>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be lustre_client.
.TP
job_set=<job metric set name>
.br
The name of the metric set that contains the job id information (default=job_id)
.TP
producer=<alternate host name>
.br
The default used for producer (if not provided) is the result of gethostname().
The set instance names will be $producer/$llite_name.
.TP
component_id=<uint64_t>
.br
Optional (defaults to 0) number of the host where the sampler is running. All sets on a host will have the same value.
.TP
perm=<octal number>
.br
Set the access permissions for the metric sets. (default 440).
.TP
extra215=1
.br
Enable lustre 2.15 new metrics; this appends a small number, unique to the choice of extras, to the default schema name.
.TP
extratimes=1
.br
Enable start and elapsed time metrics (rounded to seconds). This appends a small number, unique to the choice of extras, to the default schema name.
.TP
test_path=LLITE_DIR
.br
This debugging option instructs the plugin to read data from a directory containing a static snapshot
of an llite directory instead of from debugfs files.
.RE

.SH NOTES
Improperly spelled option names are not trapped as configuration errors.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=lustre_client
config name=lustre_client
start name=lustre_client interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), gethostname(2)
