.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_timescale
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "24 Oct 2019" "v4" "LDMS Plugin store_timescale man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_timescale - man page for the LDMS store_timescale plugin


.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script or a configuration file:
.br
load name=store_timescale
.br
strgp_add name=<policyname> plugin=store_timescale container=<c> schema=<s>
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=<policyname> regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=<policyname>
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The timescale_store plugin is a store developed by Shanghai Jiao Tong University HPC Center to store collected data in TimescaleDB.

This store is a simplified version of store_influx.
.PP

.SH STORE_TIMESCALE CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> user=<username> pwfile=<path to password file> hostaddr=<host ip addr> port=<port no> dbname=<database name> measurement_limit=<sql statement length>
.br
ldmsd_controller configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_timescale.
.TP
user=<username>
.br
This option is required; It will be used as the user name to connect to timescaledb.
.TP
pwfile=<full path to password file>
.br
This option is required; The file must have content secretword=<password>, the password will be used as the password to connect to timescaledb.
.TP
hostaddr=<host ip addr>
.br
This option is required; It will be used as the ip addr of timescaledb to connect to.
.TP
port=<port no>
.br
This option is required; It will be used as the port number of timescaledb to connect to.
.TP
dbname=<database name>
.br
This option is required; It will be used as the timescaledb database name to connect to.
.TP
measurement_limit=<sql statement length>
.br
This is optional; It specifies the maximum length of the sql statement to create table or insert data into timescaledb; default 8192.
.RE

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_timescale name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_timescale.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above).
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above).
You can have multiples of the same sampler, but with different schema (which means they will have different metrics) and they will be stored in different containers (and therefore files).
.RE

.SH STORE COLUMN ORDERING

This store generates output columns in a sequence influenced by the sampler data registration. Specifically, the column ordering is
.PP
.RS
Time, Time_usec, ProducerName, <sampled metric >*
.RE
.PP
The column sequence of <sampled metrics> is the order in which the metrics are added into the metric set by the sampler.
.PP

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or in a ldmsd command script file
.nf
load name=store_timescale
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial1 plugin=store_timescale schema=test1 container=tutorial_sampler1
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial1 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial1
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial2 plugin=store_tutorial schema=test2 container=tutorial_sampler2
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial2 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial2
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial3 plugin=store_tutorial schema=test3 container=tutorial_sampler3
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial3 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial3
.br
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), Plugin_tutorial_sampler(7), Plugin_store_csv(7)
