.\" Manpage for Plugin_store_csv
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "24 Oct 2019" "v4" "LDMS Plugin store_tutorial man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_store_tutorial - man page for the LDMS store_tutorial plugin


.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller script or a configuration file:
.br
load name=store_tutorial
.br
config name=store_tutorial path=<path>
.br
strgp_add name=<policyname> plugin=store_tutorial container=<c> schema=<s>
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=<policyname> regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=<policyname>
.br


.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The tutorial_store plugin is a demo store described in the LDMSCON2019 tutorial "LDMS v4: Sampler and Store Writing".

This store is a simplified version of store_csv, handling only U64 and producing no header and with no rollover.
.PP

.SH STORE_TUTORIAL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> path=<path>
.br
ldmsd_controller configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_tutorial.
.TP
path=<path>
.br
This option is required; the config line or the options file must supply a default value. The output files will be put into a directory whose root is specified by the path argument. This directory must exist; the subdirectories and files will be created. The full path to the output files will be <path>/<container>/<schema>. Container and schema are set when the strgp is added.
.RE

.SH STRGP_ADD ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The strgp_add sets the policies being added. This line determines the output files via
identification of the container and schema.
.TP
.BR strgp_add
plugin=store_tutorial name=<policy_name> schema=<schema> container=<container>
.br
ldmsd_controller strgp_add line
.br
.RS
.TP
plugin=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be store_tutorial.
.TP
name=<policy_name>
.br
The policy name for this strgp.
.TP
container=<container>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above).
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
The container and the schema determine where the output files will be written (see path above).
You can have multiples of the same sampler, but with different schema (which means they will have different metrics) and they will be stored in different containers (and therefore files).
.RE

.SH STORE COLUMN ORDERING

This store generates output columns in a sequence influenced by the sampler data registration. Specifically, the column ordering is
.PP
.RS
Time, Time_usec, ProducerName, <sampled metric >*
.RE
.PP
The column sequence of <sampled metrics> is the order in which the metrics are added into the metric set by the sampler.
.PP

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None known.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or in a ldmsd command script file
.nf
load name=store_tutorial
.br
config name=store_tutorial path=/tmp/store
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial1 plugin=store_tutorial schema=test1 container=tutorial_sampler1
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial1 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial1
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial2 plugin=store_tutorial schema=test2 container=tutorial_sampler2
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial2 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial2
.br
strgp_add name=store_tutorial3 plugin=store_tutorial schema=test3 container=tutorial_sampler3
.br
strgp_prdcr_add name=store_tutorial3 regex=.*
.br
strgp_start name=store_tutorial3
.br
.fi

.PP Output
> ls /tmp/store
.br
tutorial_sampler1 tutorial_sampler2 tutorial_sampler
.br
> more /tmp/store/tutorial_sampler1/test1
.br
1571943275.194664,194664,localhost1,1,0,0,13,26,39,52,65,78,91,104,117,130
.br
1571943276.195789,195789,localhost1,1,0,0,14,28,42,56,70,84,98,112,126,140
.br
1571943277.196916,196916,localhost1,1,0,0,15,30,45,60,75,90,105,120,135,150
.br
1571943278.198051,198051,localhost1,1,0,0,16,32,48,64,80,96,112,128,144,160
.br
1571943279.199184,199184,localhost1,1,0,0,17,34,51,68,85,102,119,136,153,170
.br


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), Plugin_tutorial_sampler(7), Plugin_store_csv(7)
