.\" Manpage for Plugin_variable
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "08 Jul 2020" "v4" "LDMS Plugin variable man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_variable - man page for the LDMS variable plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=variable [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The variable plugin provides test data with a periodically redefined schema and set.
Currently the period is every 4th sample. The data of the sampler is monotonically increasing integers. The data set size
changes with each redefinition.


.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The variable plugin does not use the sampler_base base class, but follows the naming conventions of sampler_base except for schema and instance name.


.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be variable.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name prefix. The string given will be suffixed with an integer N in the range 1-9 to create the
schema name. The schema will also contain N integer metrics.
.TP
instance=<inst>
.br
Optional instance name prefix. The string given will be suffixed with an integer in the range 1-9 to create the
instance name. If not specified, will default prefix is `$HOST/variable`.
.RE

.SH NOTES
The intent of the sampler is to simulate any sampler which may under some condition redefine the same instance name and schema name
for a set after properly retiring a different definition using the same names. It is not for production use.

To collect CSV data from this sampler, configure 9 store policies matching ${schema}[1-9], since the current storage policy mechanism does not allow matching
multiple schemas.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=variable
config name=variable producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/variable
start name=variable interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
