.\" Manpage for Plugin_procnet
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "9 Apr 2021" "v4" "LDMS Plugin procnet man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procnet - man page for the LDMS procnet plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=procnet [common attributes] [exclude_ports=<devs>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The procnet plugin provides network info from /proc/net/dev, creating a different set for each device, reporting only active devices, and reporting an active device only when counters change.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The procnet plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> exclude_ports=<devs>
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be procnet.
.TP
exclude_ports=<devs>
.br
Comma separated list of ports to exclude.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. If not specified, will default to `procnet`.
.RE

.SH BUGS
Interfaces reported and exclude_ports lists are each limited to 20.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=procnet
config name=procnet producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/procnet exclude_ports=lo
start name=procnet interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
