.\" Manpage for Plugin_procnetdev2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "07 Jan 2022" "v4" "LDMS Plugin procnetdev2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procnetdev2 - man page for the LDMS procnetdev2 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=procnetdev2 [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms
daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The
procnetdev2 plugin uses LDMS_V_LIST and LDMS_V_RECORD to provide network info
from /proc/net/dev.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The procnetdev2 plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers
only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the
this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [ifaces=<ifs>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be procnetdev2.
.TP
ifaces=<ifs>
.br
(Optional) A CSV list of interfaces to sample. If not specified, all available
interfaces in /proc/net/dev will be reported. It is OK to specify non-existing
interfaces in the ifaces list.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes
with different metrics or ifaces have a different schema. If not specified, will
default to `procnetdev`.
.RE

.SH BUGS
The maximum number of interfaces is limited to 32.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=procnetdev
config name=procnetdev producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/procnetdev2 ifaces=eth0,eth1
start name=procnetdev interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7),
Plugin_procnetdev(7)
