.\" Manpage for Plugin_fptrans
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "18 Feb 2018" "v4" "LDMS Plugin fptrans man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_fptrans - man page for the LDMS fptrans plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=fptrans [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The fptrans plugin provides metrics that have well known values which can be used to test transmission and storage fidelity of single and double precision scalars and floating point arrays.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The fptrans plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.



.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [schema=<sname>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be fptrans.
.TP
schema=<schema>
.br
Optional schema name. It is intended that the same sampler on different nodes with different metrics have a
different schema. If not specified, it will default to `fptrans`.
.RE

.SH NOTES
The well known values used are 0, 1, and pi as determined by C macro M_PI.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=fptrans
config name=fptrans producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/fptrans
start name=fptrans interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
