.\" Manpage for ldmsd_stream_subscribe
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "21 Aug 2021" "v4" "LDMS utility ldmsd_streams_subscribe man page"

.SH NAME
ldmsd_stream_subscribe - man page for the LDMS ldmsd_stream_subscribe utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
At the command line:
ldmsd_stream_subscribe [args]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ldmsd_stream_subscribe program subscribes to a stream in place of a full ldmsd daemon, writing received messages to a file or to stdout.

.SH COMMAND LINE SYNTAX

.TP
ldmsd_stream_subscribe -x <xprt> -h <host> -p <port> -s <stream-name> -a <auth> -A <auth-opt> -f <file> -D -i -R -q -E

.br
.RS
.TP
-x,--xprt <xprt>
.br
transport type on which to listen.
.TP
-p,--port <port>
.br
port on which to listen.
.TP
-h,--host <port>
.br
hostname or IP address of interface on which to listen.
.TP
-a,--auth <auth>
.br
authentication to expect from publishers.
.TP
-A,--auth_arg <auth-opt>
.br
auth options if needed (for e.g. ovis auth or munge on unusual port)
.TP
-s,--stream <stream-name>
.br
Name of the stream to subscribe.
.TP
-f,--file <file>
.br
File where messages delivered are written. If not specified, STDOUT.
.TP
-E,--events-raw
.br
Suppress delivery envelope information in message output.
.TP
-q,--quiet
.br
Suppress message output to file or stdout entirely.
.TP
-D,--daemonize
.br
Put the process in the background as a daemon.
.TP
-R,--daemon-noroot
.br
Prevent file system root (/) change-directory when starting the daemon.
(Does nothing if -D is not present).
.br
.TP
-i,--daemon-io
.br
Keep the input and output file descriptors attached to the daemon instead
of closing them. (Does nothing if -D is not present).
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH NOTES
.PP
This program is in development and may change at any time.
.PP
Using "-a none" is insecure and should only be used with care.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Running in user mode as a sink to test a stream publishing program writing to tag 'mystream':
.nf
ldmsd_stream_subscribe -x sock -h 127.0.0.1 -p 20411 -s mystream -a none -f messages.out -D -R
.fi

.PP
Running in root mode and testing on port 511
.nf
ldmsd_stream_subscribe -x sock -h 127.0.0.1 -p 511 -s mystream -a munge -f /var/log/ldms-stream/messages.out -D
.fi

.PP
Sending data to listening subscriber
.nf
echo '{ "a": "worthless message"}' | ./ldmsd_stream_publish -x sock -h 127.0.0.1 -p 20411 -s mystream -a none -t json

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_stream_publish(8), ldms_authentication(7)
