.TH man 7 "1 May 2022" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_slingshot_info - man page for the LDMS slingshot_info plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=slingshot_info [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms
aemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The
slingshot_info plugin provides a single metric set that contains a list of
records. Each record contains all of the informational fields for a single
slingshot NIC.

The slingshot_info sampler plugin provides a fairly small set of general information
about each slingshot NIC, including FRU description, serial number, etc. Likely
users will want to sample this plugin relatively infrequently. For detailed
slingshot NIC counter data, see the slingshot_metrics sampler plugin.

The schema is named "slingshot_info" by default.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The slingshot_info plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers
only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the
this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [counters=<COUNTER NAMES>] [counters_file=<path to counters file>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be slingshot_info.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_conteroller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=slingshot_info
config name=slingshot_info producer=host1 instance=host1/slingshot_info
start name=slingshot_info interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7),
Plugin_slingshot_metrics(7)
