.\" Man page for slurm_notifier
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "30 Sep 2019" "v4" "SPANK Plugin slurm_notifier man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_slurm_notifier - man page for the SPANK slurm_notifier plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within plugstack.conf:
.SY required
.IR OVIS_PREFIX / LIBDIR /ovis-ldms/libslurm_notifier.so
.BI stream= STREAM_NAME
.BI timeout= TIMEOUT_SEC
.BI [user_debug]
.BI client= XPRT : HOST : PORT : AUTH
.RB ...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBslurm_notifier\fR is a SPANK plugin that notifies \fBldmsd\fR about job
events (e.g. job start, job termination) and related information (e.g. job_id,
task_id, task process ID). The notification is done over \fBldmsd_stream\fR
publish mechanism. See SUBSCRIBERS below for plugins known to consume
the spank plugin messages.

.BI stream= STREAM_NAME
specifies the name of publishing stream. The default value is \fIslurm\fR.

.BI timeout= TIMEOUT_SEC
is the number of seconds determining the time-out of the LDMS connections
(default \fI5\fR).

.BI user_debug,
if present, enables sending certain plugin management debugging messages to the user's
slurm output.  (default: disabled -- slurm_debug2() receives the messages instead).

.BI client= XPRT : HOST : PORT : AUTH
specifies \fBldmsd\fR to which \fBslurm_notifier\fR publishes the data.
The \fIXPRT\fR specifies the type of the transport, which includes
.BR sock ", " rdma ", " ugni ", and " fabric .
The \fIHOST\fR is the hostname or the IP address that \fBldmsd\fR resides. The
\fIPORT\fR is the listening port of the \fBldmsd\fR. The \fIAUTH\fR is the
LDMS authentication method that the \fBldmsd\fR uses, which are
.BR munge ", or " none .
The \fBclient\fR option can be repeated to specify multiple \fBldmsd\fR's.

.SH SUBSCRIBERS
The following plugins are known to process slurm_notifier messages:
.nf
slurm_sampler         (collects slurm job & task data)
slurm_sampler2        (collects slurm job & task data)
papi_sampler          (collects PAPI data from tasks identified)
linux_proc_sampler    (collects /proc data from tasks identified)
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
/etc/slurm/plugstack.conf:

.RS
.EX
required /opt/ovis/lib64/ovis-ldms/libslurm_notifier.so \
stream=slurm timeout=5 client=sock:localhost:10000:munge \
client=sock:node0:10000:munge
.EE
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR spank (8),
.BR Plugin_slurm_sampler (7),
.BR Plugin_papi_sampler (7),
.BR Plugin_linux_proc_sampler (7),
.BR ldmsd (8),
.BR ldms_quickstart (7),
