.\" Manpage for ldmsctl_args
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "14 Jun 2015" "v2.4.3" "ldmsctl_args man page"

.SH NAME
ldmsctl_args \- Query for ldmsctl command lines based on configuration file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
ldmsctl_args [OPTION...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ldmsctl_args composes information from configuration files into the strings ldmsctl needs. In the current version, the ldms libgenders file format is supported
and output options support configuring aggregators and stores.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables may be set:
.TP
LDMS_GENDERS
override the default location /etc/genders.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -g|--genders " FILE"
Configuration FILE to use for the query. Default /etc/genders, overridden by env(LDMS_GENDERS) if present.
.TP
.BI -n|--node " HOST"
.br
HOST configuration to lookup. Default is the result of gethostname().
.TP
.BI -t|--task  " TASK"
TASK is one of: host-list or store-list. Default is host-list
.TP
.BI -o|--output " SCRIPT"
File named SCRIPT to send the output. The default is the standard output.
.TP
.BI -v|--verbose " LEVEL"
Integer LEVEL of noise to make. Default is 0 (minimal).
.TP
.BR -h|--help
Dump the options list.


.SH NOTES
This is experimental, and more task types are expected.

.SH BUGS
-o is ignored; use shell redirects until this is fixed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
$ ldmsctl_args -g genders.ldms -n b1 -t host-list
add host=c3n5-ib0 type=active interval=1000000 offset=10000 xprt=rdma port=411 sets=c3n5/r,c3n5/s
add host=c3n6-ib0 type=active interval=1000000 offset=10000 xprt=rdma port=411 sets=c3n6/r,c3n6/s
.br
.PP
.nf
$ldmsctl_args -g genders.ldms -n top -t store-list
r,s
.br
.PP
.nf
For a non-existent node, output is empty.
$ldms_ls -h vm1 -x sock -p 60000 -l vm1_1/foo
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsctl(1), gethostname(2), ldms-genders(7)
