.\" Manpage for ldmsd.conf used with genders
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 5 "21 Jun 2015" "v2.4.3" "ldmsd.conf man page"

.SH NAME
ldmsd.conf \- global settings for genders based ldmsd configuration.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The genders based ldmsd configuration includes a few variable that are
node independent.

The following environment variables must usually be set in ldmsd.conf:
.TP
LDMS_GENDERS
The full path name of the genders file to use. May be set to /etc/genders or to an LDMS specific value used for both ldmsd and ldms-aggd.
.TP
LD_LIBRARY_PATH
The library search path to ovis/lib64 (or ovis/lib, depending on OS) and libevent2, if not in a system default path.
.TP
LDMSD_LOG_PATH
Path to logs for daemon instances. Special value 'syslog' sends ldmsd log messages to syslog rather than files.
.TP
MYHOSTNAME
The recipe for computing an unqualified host name (valid with the cluster)
must be supplied. The default works in most instances.
.TP
LDMSD_RDMAV_FORK_SAFE
Should normally be set to 1 to ensure correct thread behavior.
.TP
BUILDTYPE,prefix,exec_prefix,sbindir,sysconfdir,localstatedir,libdir,libevent2_libdir
Definitions of the standard package path variables, unless BUILDTYPE == experimental. These may need adjustment for systems without Redhat-like file layouts.

.SS Additional script variables for experimental work
.TP
LDMSD_LOCAL_SOCK
The name of the UNIX socket for local control of the daemon.
.TP
LDMSD_LOCAL_SOCK_DIR
The directory of the UNIX sockets for local control of the daemon.


.SH NOTES
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsctl(1), ldms_ls(1), ldms(7), ldms-genders(7)
