=head1 NAME

ldms - The Lightweight Distributed Metric Service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

LDMS is a set of utilities, plugins, and daemons for extracting performance metrics from distributed systems. The design of LDMS is targetted at high performance computing system users with low tolerance for interference from measurement tools.

This page indexes the available man pages.

=head1 GETTING HELP

You can get more documentation, tutorials and community support
online at the wiki: L<https://ovis.ca.sandia.gov>.

If you're new to LDMS, you should start at the Downloads and documentation
page of the wiki.

The LDMS manual has several sections.

=head2 The daemon

    ldmsd, ldms-aggd	The daemon 
    ldmsctl, ldmsaggctl	The text-based control interface
    ldms_ls		The data query client interface
    LDMS_Authentication	How to manage control and query authentication

=head2 Libgenders based daemon boot scripts
    ldms-genders
    ldms-aggd-genders.conf
    ldmsd-genders.conf.man

=head2 Tutorials

    LDMS_QuickStart	LDMS short introduction
    Sampler_tutorial	Need to fix this line.

=head2 Data collection plugins

    Plugin_cray_system_sampler_variants
    Plugin_kgnilnd		Cray /proc/kgnilnd metrics
    Plugin_lustre2_client	Lustre FS metrics
    Plugin_meminfo		/proc/meminfo metrics
    Plugin_procnetdev		/proc/net/dev metrics
    Plugin_procnfs		/proc/net/rpc/nfs nfs client metrics
    Plugin_procstatutil2	/proc/stat CPU time other CPU stats
    Plugin_sysclassib		/sys/class/infiniband/*/ports/*/counters
    Plugin_vmstat		/proc/vmstat metrics

=head2 Data storage plugins

    Plugin_store_csv		Output to comma-separated-value (CSV) formats
    Plugin_store_derived_csv	Output of simple derived metrics to CSV formats

=head2 Experimental and deprecated data collection plugins

    Plugin_synthetic		Experimental: data generator for scale testing
    Plugin_procsensors		Experimental: requires lmsensors support
    Plugin_slurmjobid		Experimental: requires slurm prolog support
    Plugin_procstatutil		Deprecated: use Plugin_procstatutil2

=head2 Internals and C Language Interface

In LDMS v2 the C API for applications is in development.

In LDMS v2 the C API for plugins is also in development.

LDMS v3 is in early development; stay tuned for possible development of stable C APIs.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

ldmsd is a single daemon which (under multiple names) acts as a scheduler of metric collection plugins (ldmsd), a mover of data sets (ldms-aggd) over high performance networks, and a scheduler of data storage plugins (ldms-aggd).

LDMS samplers may collect data from out-of-band sources (OOB) as well as in the compute node runtime environment. At present no OOB samplers are available for public release.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

LDMS is portable to most Unix-like operating systems.
Currently supported platforms are Ubuntu and Redhat Linux variants
running kernels with complete network stacks.

=head1 SEE ALSO

 https://ovis.ca.sandia.gov	LDMS Wiki
 LDMS Sampler Tutorial from Ed.

=head1 NOTES

The low overhead design of LDMS precludes scalable automated discover of the machines and metrics to be monitored. In particular, an informed administrator must select the network location of every daemon, data link, and metric set to be collected. Further, metric sets of the same kind must be specified to have the same sized (and named and sequenced) data on every node in order for aggregation to function efficiently and robustly. Consult ovis-help@sandia.gov for assistance in this regard.
