.\" Manpage for Plugin_procstatutil2
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "17 Sep 2015" "v2.5/rc1" "LDMS Plugin procstatutil2 man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procstatutil2 - man page for the LDMS procstatutil2 plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=procstatutil2 [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsctl.
The procstatutil2 plugin provides cpu utilization info from /proc/stat,
allowing for hyperthreading and downed core variability.

.SH LDMSCTL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> component_id=<comp_id> set=<set_name> 
.br
ldmsctl configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be procstatutil2.
.TP
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
1 to include jobid with set or 0 if not.
.TP
component_id=<comp_id>
.br
The component id numerical value.
.TP
set=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
maxcpu=<core count>
.br
Values are 0 to N, where 0 logs only totalized data and N reserves slots for N cores. If less than N cores are found, 0-values are reported. If more than N cores are found, they are ignored with an INFO note in the log.  Default is the number of cores found locally when the sampler is started.  If machines monitored may have cores disabled or variable hyperthreading  status, set maxcpu to the most cores that will be reported anywhere in the cluster.
.RE

.SH DATA
This reports both interrupt count and time processing them. For detailed interrupt data by type, another plugin that reads /proc/interrupts must be created.

.SH BUGS
Version 2 of ldms makes reporting all interrupts by name too complex to
implement portably. This might be addressed in version 3.

.SH EXAMPLES 
.PP
.nf
$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsctl -S /var/run/ldmsd/metric_socket_vm1_1
ldmsctl> load name=procstatutil2
ldmsctl> config name=procstatutil2 component_id=1 maxcpu=4 set=vm1_1/procstatutil2
ldmsctl> start name=procstatutil2 interval=1000000
ldmsctl> quit
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
Kernel source fs/proc/stat.c and proc(5), LDMS_Authentication(7), LDMS_QuickStart(7), ldmsctl(1), ldmsd(1), ldms_ls(1),
Plugin_cray_system_sampler_variants(7), Plugin_kgnilnd(7), Plugin_lustre2_client(7), Plugin_meminfo(7), Plugin_procnetdev(7), Plugin_procnfs(7),
Plugin_procsensors(7), Plugin_store_csv(7), Plugin_store_derived_csv(7), Plugin_sysclassib(7), Plugin_vmstat(7)
