.\" Manpage for Plugin_slurmjobid
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "09 Apr 2015" "v2.5" "LDMS Plugin slurmjobid man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_slurmjobid - man page for the LDMS slurmjobid plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=slurmjobid [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsctl.
The slurmjobid plugin provides jobid info from /var/run/ldms.slurm.jobid or similar files replaced periodically by resource managers. When files are missing, the value 0 is reported.

.SH LDMSCTL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> component_id=<comp_id> set=<set_name> colname=<metric_name> file=<filepath>
.br
ldmsctl configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be slurmjobid.
.TP
component_id=<comp_id>
.br
The component id numerical value.
.TP
file=<filepath>
.br
Optional. The full path to an ASCII file containing only an unsigned integer.
Default value is /var/run/ldms.slurm.jobid.
The integer may be decimal, octal (starting with 0) or hex (starting with 0x)
as parsed by strtoull(input,endptr,0).
.TP
colname=<metric_name>
.br
Optional. The metric name by which to report the value in the file.
Default value is slurm.jobid.
.TP
set=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known implementation bugs. Design features you may not like:
Relies on site-specific resource manager configuration to produce the file read.
Does not query local or remote manager daemons.
May be slow to sample and generate undesirable filesystem events if filepath is on a networked filesystem instead of a node-local RAM partition as is usual in clusters.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsctl -S /var/run/ldmsd/metric_socket_vm1_1
ldmsctl> load name=slurmjobid
ldmsctl> config name=slurmjobid component_id=1 set=vm1_1/slurmjobid
ldmsctl> start name=slurmjobid interval=1000000
ldmsctl> quit

$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsctl -S /var/run/ldmsd/metric_socket_vm1_1
ldmsctl> load name=slurmjobid
ldmsctl> config name=slurmjobid component_id=1 set=vm1_1/jobid file=/var/run/rman/node/jobid colname=rman_jobid
ldmsctl> start name=slurmjobid interval=1000000
ldmsctl> quit
.fi

Slurm 2.x installations can populate /var/run/ldms.slurm.jobid by adding
the following lines to slurm.epilog and slurm.prolog, respectively.
.PP
.nf
echo "0" > /var/run/ldms.slurm.jobid
and
echo $SLURM_JOBID > /var/run/ldms.slurm.jobid
.fi
These slurm files might be found in /etc/nodestate/bin/.

.SH SEE ALSO
ldms(7)
