.\" Manpage for Plugin_sysclassib
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "11 Sep 2014" "v2.2/RC1.2" "LDMS Plugin sysclassib man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_sysclassib - man page for the LDMS sysclassib plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsctl
.br
ldmsctl> config name=sysclassib [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsctl.
The sysclassib plugin provides IB metric information.

.SH LDMSCTL CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> component_id=<comp_id> set=<set_name> metrics_type=<num> ports=<ports> with_jobid=<bool>
.br
ldmsctl configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be sysclassib.
.TP
component_id=<comp_id>
.br
The component id numerical value.
.TP
set=<set_name>
.br
The name of the metric set.
.TP
metrics_type=<metrics_type>
.br
Values are 0 or 1. 0 = counter data only. 1 = include rate data in addtion.
Default is 0.
.TP
ports=<ports>
.br
CSV list of the form CARD1.PORT1,CARD2.PORT2. Default is all discovered values.
.TP 
with_jobid=<bool>
.br
1 to include jobid with set or 0 if not.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
$/tmp/opt/ovis/sbin/ldmsctl -S /var/run/ldmsd/metric_socket_vm1_1
ldmsctl> load name=sysclassib
ldmsctl> config name=sysclassib component_id=1 set=vm1_1/sysclassib metric_type=1
ldmsctl> start name=sysclassib interval=1000000
ldmsctl> quit
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldms(7), Plugin_procnetdev(7)
