.\" Manpage for Plugin_blob_stream_writer
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "15 Jun 2021" "v4" "LDMS Plugin blob_stream_writer man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_blob_stream_writer - man page for the LDMS blob_stream_writer plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=blob_stream_writer [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The blob_stream_writer plugin writes out raw stream messages
and offsets of the messages in separate files. Messages are not appended with '\n' or '\0'.
Multiple streams may be specified.


.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
.TP
.BR config
name=blob_stream_writer path=<path> container=<container> stream=<stream> debug=1
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be blob_stream_writer.
.TP
path=<path>
.br
path to the directory of the output files
.TP
container=<container>
.br
directory of the output file
.TP
stream=<stream>
.br
stream to which to subscribe. This argument may be repeated. Each stream will be written in a separate file pair.
.TP
debug=1
.br
Enable logging of messages stored to the log file.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
There is no requirement that any message must the same format as any other.

The writer writes all messages received to a file pair:
$path/$container/$stream.OFFSET.$create_time
$path/$container/$stream.DAT.$create_time
where OFFSET is the byte offsets into the corresponding .DAT
of the messages seen on the stream.

Each byte offset is written as a little-endian 64 bit number.
Data read from .OFFSET should be converted to host order
with le64toh.

Both DAT and OFFSET files begin with an 8 byte magic number: blobdat\\0 and bloboff\\0, respectively.


.SH NOTES
.PP
This writer is in development and may be changed at any time.
.PP
Cannot support stream=.* as there is no corresponding regex subscription policy
currently available in the C stream API.
.PP
The config operation may called at any time or repeated.
The start and stop operations will start and stop storage of all streams.
.PP
The plugin appears in C code as a sampler plugin, since the storage policy and store
plugin interfaces are set-oriented and no sets are involved here.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=blob_stream_writer
config name=blob_stream_writer path=/writer/streams container=${CLUSTER} stream=foo stream=slurm stream=kokkos
start name=name=blob_stream_writer
.fi
.PP
Examining offsets in a shell:
.nf
od -t u8 -w4 slurm.OFFSET.1624033344 |sed -e 's/[0-9,A-F,a-f]* *//'
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), le64toh(3), fseek(3), od(1)
