.TH man 7 "1 May 2022" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_slingshot_metrics - man page for the LDMS slingshot_metrics plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=slingshot_metrics [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms
aemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The
slingshot_metrics plugin provides a single metric set that contains a list of
records. Each record contains all of the metrics for a single slingshot NIC.

The slingshot_metrics sampler plugin provides detailed counter metrics for
each slignshot NIC.

The schema is named "slingshot_metrics" by default.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The slingshot_metrics plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers
only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the
this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [counters=<COUNTER NAMES>] [counters_file=<path to counters file>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be slingshot_metrics.
.TP
counters=<COUNTER NAMES>
.br
(Optional) A CSV list of names of slingshot counter names. See Section
COUTNER NAMES for details. If neither this option nor counters_file are
specified, a default set of counters will be used.
.TP
counters_files=<path to counters file>
.br
(Optional) A path to a file that contains a list of counter names, one
per line. See Section COUNTER NAMES for details. A line will be consider
a comment if the character on the line is a "#". If neither this option
nor counters are specified, a default set of counters will be used.
.TP
refresh_interval_sec=<seconds>
.br
(Optional) The sampler caches the list of slinghost devices, and that
cache is refreshed at the beginning of a sample cycle if the refresh
interval time has been exceeded. refresh_interval_sec sets
the minimum number of seconds between refreshes of the device cache.
The default refresh interval is 600 seconds.
.RE

.SH COUNTER NAMES
The names of the counters can be found in the slingshot/cassini header
file cassini_cntr_def.h in the array c1_cntr_defs (specifically the strings
in the "name" field of said array entries).

In addition to the individual counter names, this plugin allows specifying
entire groups of counters by using the counter name pattern "group:<group name>",
for insance, "group:hni". The available groups are: ext, pi_ipd, mb, cq, lpe,
hni, ext2. These groups correspond with the enum c_cntr_group in the
cassini_cntr_def.h file. Additionally, one may use "group:all", which
simply includes all available counters.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_conteroller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=slingshot_metrics
config name=slingshot_metrics producer=host1 instance=host1/slingshot_metrics counters=ixe_rx_tcp_pkt,group:hni refresh_interval_sec=3600
start name=slingshot_metrics interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
