.\" Manpage for Plugin_shm_sampler
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "5 March 2018" "v4.0" "LDMS Plugin shm_sampler man page"
.Dd 3/5/18               \" DATE
.Dt shm_sampler 1      \" Program name and manual section number

.Sh Name                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm shm_sampler
.Nd
This is a sampler plug-in module within the the LDMS that can read from a dynamic number of shm files.

.Sh SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
load name=shm_sampler
.br
config name=shm_sampler [ <attr>=<value> ]


.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a sampler plug-in module within the the LDMS. This sampler can read from a dynamic number of shm files.
These files are tracked by a central index file in shared memory.
The main usage of this sampler is to stream application performance data.

.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
Configuration options:
.br
producer=<name> instance=<name> [shm_index=<name>][shm_boxmax=<int>][shm_array_max=<int>][shm_metric_max=<int>]
[shm_set_timeout=<int>][component_id=<int>] [schema=<name>] [job_set=<name> job_id=<name> app_id=<name>
job_start=<name> job_end=<name>]
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It producer               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
 A unique name for the host providing the data
.It instance
A unique name for the metric set
.It shm_index
A unique name for the shared memory index file
.It    shm_boxmax
Maximum number of entries in the shared memory index file
.It    shm_array_max
Maximum number of elements in array metrics
.It    shm_metric_max
Maximum number of metrics
.It    shm_set_timeout
No read/write timeout in seconds
.It    component_id
A unique number for the component being monitored, Defaults to zero.
.It    schema
The name of the metric set schema, Defaults to the sampler name
.It    job_set
The instance name of the set containing the job data, default is 'job_info'
.It    job_id
The name of the metric containing the Job Id, default is 'job_id'
.It    app_id
The name of the metric containing the Application Id, default is 'app_id'
.It    job_start
The name of the metric containing the Job start time, default is 'job_start'
.It    job_end
The name of the metric containing the Job end time, default is 'job_end'
.El \" Ends the list


.Sh BUGS
None known.

.Sh EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=shm_sampler
config name=shm_sampler producer=samplerd instance=samplerd/shm_sampler shm_index=/ldms_shm_mpi_index shm_boxmax=4 component_id=23
start name=shm_sampler interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi



.Sh SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8)
