.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_dcgm_sampler - man page for the LDMS dcgm_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=dcgm_sampler [ <attr>=<value> ] [use_base=<*>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The dcgm_sampler plugin provides a metric set for each DCGM-compatible Nvidia GPU on the system.
The schema is named "dcgm" by default.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> interval=<interval(us)> [fields=<fields>] [schema=<schema_name>] [job_set=<metric set name>] [use_base=<*> [uid=<int>] [gid=<int>] [perm=<octal>] [instance=<name>] [producer=<name>] [job_id=<metric name in job_set set>]]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be dcgm_sampler.
.TP
use_base=<*>
.br
Any value given enables the sampler_base configuration option processing (see ldms_sampler_base(7)). If not given, the options not
listed below are ignored.
.TP
interval=<interval(us)>
.br
The DCGM library sampling interval (dcgmWatchFields() updateFreq). This MUST be set to the same value that is
set on the dcgm_sampler start line, otherwise behavior is undetermined.
.TP
fields=<fields>
.br
<fields> is a comma-separated list of integers representing DCGM field
identifiers that the plugin should watch.  By default the plugin will
watch fields 150,155. The field identifier meanings are defined in dcgm_fields.h
and the DCGM Library API Reference Manual and may vary with DCGM release version.
The plugin usage message provides a table of fields, subject to hardware
support; see the output of 'ldms-plugins.sh dcgm_sampler'.
.TP
schema=<schema_name>
.br
The schema name defaults to "dcgm", but it can be renamed at the
user's choice.
.TP
job_set=<metric set name>
.br
The name of the metric set that contains the job id information (default=job_id)
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=dcgm_sampler
config name=dcgm_sampler interval=1000000 fields=150,155,1001,1002,1003 schema=dcgmfav5
start name=dcgm_sampler interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
