.\" Manpage for Plugin_linux_proc_sampler Plugin_linux_proc
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "15 Jul 2021" "v4" "LDMS Plugin linux_proc man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_linux_proc_sampler - man page for the LDMS linux_proc_sampler plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=linux_proc_sampler [common attributes] [stream=STREAM] [metrics=METRICS] [cfg_file=FILE] [instance_prefix=PREFIX] [exe_suffix=1] [argv_sep=<char>] [argv_msg=1] [argv_fmt=<1,2>] [env_msg=1] [env_exclude=EFILE] [fd_msg=1] [fd_exclude=EFILE]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller or a configuration file. The linux_proc_sampler plugin provides data from /proc/, creating a different set for each process identified in the named stream. The stream can come from the ldms-netlink-notifier daemon or the spank plugin slurm_notifier. The per-process data from /proc/self/environ and /proc/self/cmdline can optionally be published to streams.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
The linux_proc_sampler plugin uses the sampler_base base class. This man page covers only the configuration attributes, or those with default values, specific to the this plugin; see ldms_sampler_base.man for the attributes of the base class.

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [other options]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be linux_proc_sampler.
.TP
instance_prefix=PREFIX
.br
Prepend PREFIX to the set instance names. Typically a cluster name when needed to disambiguate producer names that appear in multiple clusters.  (default: no prefix).
.TP
exe_suffix=1
.br
If present, set instance names are appended with the full path of the executable. This is most likely
useful for debugging configuration of the notifier up-stream using ldms_ls. (default: no such suffix)
.TP
sc_clk_tck=1
.br
If present, include sc_clk_tck in the metric set. sc_clk_tck is the ticks per second from sysconf(_SC_CLK_TCK). (default: not included).
.TP
stream=STREAM
.br
The name of the `ldmsd_stream` to listen for SLURM job events.  (default: slurm).
.TP
argv_sep=<char>
.br
Replace nul within the cmdline string with char.
Special specifiers \\b,\\n,\\t,\\v,\\r,\\f are also supported.
.TP
syscalls=FILE
.br
File mapping syscall integers to symbolic names.
Not needed unless syscall_name is included in the metrics. See FILES for details.
.TP
metrics
.br
The comma-separated list of metrics to monitor.  The default is (empty), which is equivalent to monitor ALL metrics.
.TP
cfg_file=CFILE
.br
The alternative configuration file in JSON format. The file is expected to have an object that contains the following attributes: { "stream": "STREAM_NAME", "syscalls" : "/file", "metrics": [ comma-separated-quoted-strings ] }.  If the `cfg_file` is given, all other sampler-specific options given on the key=value line
are ignored.
.TP
argv_msg=1
.br
Publish the argv items to a stream named <SCHEMA>_argv, where if the schema is not specified, the default schema is linux_proc_sampler. (Default: argv_msg=0; no publication of argv). E.g. a downstream daemon will need to subscribe to
linux_proc_sampler_argv to receive the published messages and store them.
.TP
argv_fmt=<1,2>
.br
Publish the argv items formatted as (1) a json list of strings ['argv0', 'argv1'] or (2) a json list of key/value tuples, e.g. [ {"k":0, "v":"argv[0]"}, {"k":1, "v":"argv[1]"}].
.TP
env_msg=1
.br
Publish the environment items to a stream named <SCHEMA>_env, where if the schema is not specified, the default SCHEMA is linux_proc_sampler. (Default: env_msg=0; no publication of the environment). Environment data is published as a list in the style of argv_fmt=2.  E.g. a downstream daemon will need to subscribe to linux_proc_sampler_env to receive the published messages and store them.
.TP
env_exclude=ELIST
.br
Exclude the environment items named with regular expressions in ELIST.
On the configuration key=value line, ELIST must be a file name of a file
containing a list of regular expressions one per line. An environment variable that
matches any of the listed regular expressions will be excluded.
When used in the cfg_file, the env_exclude value may be either the
string name of the regular expression file or a JSON array
of expression strings as shown in EXAMPLES.
.TP
fd_exclude=ELIST
.br
Exclude the files named with regular expressions in ELIST.
On the configuration key=value line, ELIST must be a file name of a file
containing a list of regular expressions one per line. A file that
matches any of the listed regular expressions will be excluded.
When used in the cfg_file, the fd_exclude value may be either the
string name of the regular expression file or a JSON array
of expression strings as shown in EXAMPLES.
.TP
fd_msg=N
.br
Publish new /proc/pid/fd scan data to the <SCHEMA>_files stream every N-th sample, where if the schema is not specified, the default SCHEMA is linux_proc_sampler. (Default: fd_msg=0; no publication of the file details). A downstream daemon will need to subscribe to linux_proc_sampler_files to receive the published messages and store them. Files that are not opened long enough to be caught in a scan of fds will be missed. Files will be reported as 'opened' the first time seen and as 'closed' when they are no longer seen.  A file both no longer seen and no longer existing will be reported as 'deleted'. Only regular files (not sockets, etc) are reported, and additionally files matching the fd_expressions are ignored. Use a larger N to reduce the scan overhead at the cost of missing short-access files. If a close-reopen of the same file occurs between scans, no corresponding events are generated.
.RE

.SH INPUT STREAM FORMAT

The named ldmsd stream should deliver messages with a JSON format which includes the following.
Messages which do not contain event, data, job_id, and some form of PID will be ignored. Extra
fields will be ignored.
.nf
{ "event" = "$e",
  "data" : {
	"job_id" : INT,
	"task_pid" : INT,
	"os_pid" : INT,
	"parent_pid" : INT,
	"is_thread" : INT,
	"exe" : STRING,
	"start" : STRING,
	"start_tick" : STRING
  }
}
.fi
where $e is one of task_init_priv or task_exit.
The data fields other than job_id are all optional, but at least one of os_pid and task_pid must
contain the PID of a process to be monitored. If present and > 0, task_pid should be the value taken
from SLURM_TASK_PID or an equivalent value from another resource management environment.
The value of start, if provided, should be approximately the epoch time ("%lu.%06lu") when the
PID to be monitored started.

.SH OUTPUT STREAM FORMAT
The json formatted output for argv and environment values includes a
common header:
.nf
{
   "producerName":"localhost1",
   "component_id":1,
   "pid":8991,
   "job_id":0,
   "timestamp":"1663086686.947600",
   "task_rank":-1,
   "parent":1,
   "is_thread":0,
   "exe":"/usr/sbin/ldmsd",
   "data":[LIST]
.fi
where LIST is formatted as described for argv_fmt option.


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=linux_proc_sampler
config name=linux_proc_sampler producer=vm1_1 instance=vm1_1/linux_proc_sampler metrics=stat_comm,stat_pid,stat_cutime
start name=linux_proc_sampler interval=1000000
.fi
.PP
An example metrics configuration file is:
.nf
{
  "stream": "slurm",
  "instance_prefix" : "cluster2",
  "syscalls": "/etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf/syscalls.map",
  "env_msg": 1,
  "argv_msg": 1,
  "fd_msg" : 1,
  "fd_exclude": [
        "/dev/",
        "/run/",
        "/var/",
        "/etc/",
        "/sys/",
        "/tmp/",
        "/proc/",
        "/ram/tmp/",
        "/usr/lib"
    ],
  "env_exclude": [
	"COLORTERM",
	"DBU.*",
	"DESKTOP_SESSION",
	"DISPLAY",
	"GDM.*",
	"GNO.*",
	"XDG.*",
	"LS_COLORS",
	"SESSION_MANAGER",
	"SSH.*",
	"XAU.*"
    ],
  "metrics": [
    "stat_pid",
    "stat_state",
    "stat_rss",
    "stat_utime",
    "stat_stime",
    "stat_cutime",
    "stat_cstime",
    "stat_num_threads",
    "stat_comm",
    "n_open_files",
    "io_read_b",
    "io_write_b",
    "status_vmdata",
    "status_rssfile",
    "status_vmswap",
    "status_hugetlbpages",
    "status_voluntary_ctxt_switches",
    "status_nonvoluntary_ctxt_switches",
    "syscall_name"
  ]
}
.fi
.PP
Generating syscalls.map:
.nf
# ldms-gen-syscalls-map > /etc/sysconfig/ldms.d/plugins-conf/syscalls.map
.fi
.PP
Obtaining the currently supported optional metrics list:
.nf
ldms-plugins.sh linux_proc_sampler
.fi

.SH FILES
Data is obtained from (depending on configuration) the following files in /proc/[PID]/:
.nf
cmdline
exe
statm
stat
status
fd
io
oom_score
oom_score_adj
root
syscall
timerslack_ns
wchan
.fi

The system call integer:name mapping varies with kernel and is therefore read
from an input file of the format:
.nf
# comments
0 read
 ...
.fi
where all lines are <int name> pairs. This file can be created from the output of
ldms-gen-syscall-map. System call names must be less than 64 characters. Unmapped
system calls will be given names of the form SYS_<num>.

.PP
The env_msg option can have its output filtered by json or a text file, e.g.:
.nf
# env var name regular expressions (all OR-d together)
COLORTERM
DBU.*
DESKTOP_SESSION
DISPLAY
GDM.*
GNO.*
XDG.*
LS_COLORS
SESSION_MANAGER
SSH.*
XAU.*
.fi

.PP
The fd_msg option can have its output filtered by json or a text file, e.g.:
.nf
/dev/
/run/
/var/
/etc/
/sys/
/tmp/
/proc/
/ram/tmp/
/usr/lib64/
/usr/lib/
.fi

.SH NOTES

The value strings given to the options sc_clk_tck and exe_suffix are ignored; the presence of the option is sufficient to enable the respective features.

Some of the optionally collected data might be security sensitive.

The publication of environment and cmdline (argv) stream data is done once at the start of metric collection for the process. The message will not be reemitted unless the sampler is restarted. Also, changes to the environment and argv lists made within a running process are NOT reflected in the /proc data maintained by the linux kernel. The environment and cmdline values may contain non-JSON characters; these will be escaped in the published strings.

The publication of file information via fd_msg information may be effectively made one-shot-per-process by setting fd_msg=2147483647. This will cause late-loaded plugin library dependencies to be missed, however.

.SH SEE ALSO
syscalls(2), ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7), proc(5), sysconf(3), environ(3).
