.\" Manpage for Plugin_procstat
.\" Contact ovis-help@ca.sandia.gov to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "03 Dec 2016" "v3" "LDMS Plugin procstat man page"

.SH NAME
Plugin_procstat - man page for the LDMS procstat plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or in a configuration file
.br
config name=procstat [ <attr> = <value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The procstat plugin provides cpu utilization info from /proc/stat,
allowing for hyperthreading and downed core variability.
As hyperthreading might be variable and user selectable depending 
on system configuration, the maximum number of cores potentially appearing
should be set in the plugin options with the maxcpu parameter.
Cores not actually appearing will be reported as 0 values.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

See ldms_sampler_base(7) for the common sampler options.
.TP
.BR config
maxcpu=<core_count> <standard options>
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
maxcpu=<core count>
.br
Values are 0 to N, where 0 logs only totalized data and N reserves slots for N cores. If less than N cores are found, 0-values are reported. If more than N cores are found, they are ignored with an INFO note in the log.  Default is the number of cores found locally when the sampler is started.  If machines monitored may have cores disabled or variable hyperthreading  status, set maxcpu to the most cores that will be reported anywhere in the cluster.
.TP
sc_clk_tck=1
.br
Enable optional reporting of sysconf(_SC_CLK_TCK), the scheduler ticks-per-second defined at kernel build time as CONFIG_HZ,
collected from sysconf(3). Typically HPC systems use 100, while 250, 300, 1000 may also occur.
.RE

.SH DATA
This reports both interrupt count and time processing them. For detailed interrupt data by type, consider Plugin_procinterrupts(7).

.SH BUGS
Reporting all interrupts by name is not implemented.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=procstat
config name=procstat producer=vm1_1 component_id=1 maxcpu=4 instance=vm1_1/procstat with_jobid=0
start name=procstat interval=1000000 offset=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldms_sampler_base(7), Plugin_procinterrupts(7),
Kernel source fs/proc/stat.c and proc(5), ldmsd(8), ldmsd_controller(8)
